.so .bitmacros
.TH DELTA 1 "May, 1998" "BitMover, Inc." BitSCCS
.SH NAME
delta \- make a delta to an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/bitsccs/delta
[\fB\-cilnpqs\fP]
[\fB-I\fIf\fR]
[\fB-R\fIr\fR]
[\fB-y\fIc\fR]
[\fIfile\fP \|.\|.\|.]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command is part of \*(BS, the \*(BM version of \*S.  For an 
introduction, please see
.BR bitsccs (1).
.LP
.B delta
checks in changes (aka deltas) in the working file to the
\*S revision control file.
The working file[s] must have been previously edited by the
.BR get ,
.BR co ,
or some other \*S enabled program.
.B delta
may prompt you on the standard output depending upon
the options specified and the flags that are set in the
.BR s. file
(see
.BR admin (1),
and the
.B -y
option below, for details).
.so filenames
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c
Do not regenerate the \*S checksum after writing the file.
Use of this option is not advised, it is usually used  in conversion
scripts for a little extra performance.
.TP
.B -i
Initialize the file.  Used when checking in an initial file.  The traditional
\*S command for this function is
.BR admin .
.TP
.TP
.BI -I initFile
Take the date, user, comments, pathname, hostname, etc., from the file
.IR initFile .
This option is typically used in conversion scripts.  The file format 
must match that produced by a
.B "prs -I<rev>" 
and looks like:
.DS
D 1.3 97/05/25 21:59:47 lm@bitmover.com 3 2  1/1/32
P /home/lm/smt/sccs/delta.c
C Support -y flag.
.DE
.TP
.B -l
Lock the file after the check in.  This is analogous to following the 
.B delta 
command with a 
.BR "get -e" .
.TP
.B -n
Retain the edited
.BR g -file,
which is normally removed at the completion of processing.
.TP
.B -p
Display differences (in
.BR diff (1)
format) on the standard output.
.TP
.B \-q
Run silently, like 
.B -s
below.
.TP
.BI \-R rev
Force the revision of the new delta to be
.IR rev .
Use this with caution, because an incorrect revision number can confuse
programs which parse the files.  This option is typically only used in
conversion scripts.
.TP
.B \-s
Run quietly.  All informational messages are suppressed; error messages
are unaffected.
.TP
.BI \-y [comment]
Supply a comment for the delta.  A
null
comment is acceptable.  If
.B \-y
is not specified,
.B delta
prompts with the file name and new revision number like so:
.DS
$ delta foo.c
End comments with "." by itself, blank line, or EOF.
foo.c 2.11>>  
.DE
.SH EXAMPLES
To check in everything in the local directory, try:
.DS
$ delta
.DE
If you wanted to use the same comment on every delta, you could also
try:
.DS
$ delta -y'Changes for release 1 of Widget'
.DE
A common usage is to print the differences, this is handy since you frequently
need to scan the differences to provide meaningful comment.  For each file,
the differences are printed, then you are prompted for the comment.
.DS
$ delta -p foo.c bar.c
===== foo.c 1.1 vs edited =====
1a
> /* Copyright 1998 Foo Corp, Ltd. */
foo.c 1.2>> Add copyright
foo.c 1.2>> .
===== bar.c 1.3 vs edited =====
1a
> /* Copyright 1998 Foo Corp, Ltd. */
bar.c 1.4>> Add copyright
bar.c 1.4>> .
.DE
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.BI p. file
lock file for a checked-out version
.TP
.BI s. file
\*S history file
.TP
.BI x. file
temporary copy of the
.BR s. file
.TP
.BI z. file
lock file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR admin (1),
.BR sccs-ci (1),
.BR get (1),
.BR prs (1),
.BR rmdel (1),
.BR diff (1),
.BR diffs (1).
