.so .bitmacros
.TH PATCHSET 1 "May, 1998" "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.SH NAME
patchset, pset \- apply a patch to source tree
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/bitsccs/patchset
[\fB-d\fIdirectory\fR]
[\fB-t\fItag\fR]
[\fB-u\fIuser\fR]
[\fIpatchfile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command is part of \*(BK.  For an introduction, please see
.BR bitkeeper (1).
.LP
.B patchset
applies a patch file of unified diffs (see 
.BR patch (1)),
to an \*S tree.  Each file specified in the patch is checked out, the 
change is applied, and the file is checked back in.  In addition, the set of
files patched is recorded as a change set in the ChangeSet file (see 
.BR changeset (1)).
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
The patch file may have some extensions over a normal patch file.
.LP
By default, the patch is applied to the top of the tree.
For patches derived from earlier versions of the tree, use the 
.I -t
option to specify an earlier (tagged) version of the tree.  
XXX - if the files are of the form

	tag-name/foo/bar/file.c
	foo/bar/file.c

then -t tag-name is implied.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -d directory
Use
.I directory
as the root of the source tree.  The default is the current 
working directory.
.TP
.BI -t tag
Use the revisions associated with
.I tag
as the basis for the patches.  
.I Tag 
may not be the top of trunk, in fact, it is frequently the case.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bitsccs (1),
.BR admin (1),
.BR delta (1),
.BR prs (1),
.BR gfiles (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (5)
.LP
XXX - I need to be able to make binary patchsets.
