.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk command" 1 20%E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.\"    ============ Aborting a failed pull/push/resync  ============
.SH NAME
bk command \- command description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
.B bk command [\-option] [
.ARG argument
.B ]
.\"
.br
.B bk command [\-options]
[
.OPTreq \-c rev
]
.\"
.br
.B bk command [\-options]
.OB \-c rev
.\"
.br
.B bk command [\-options]
.ARG argument
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Longer description.
Narrative overview of the command's external behaviour.
.LP
For on screen examples,
.DS
all text from
examples here
.DE
.SH OPTIONS
.\" Pick the longest word in the TP's for this.  Note that in variable
.\" width fonts, you may need a little padding for "big lettered" words.
.if n .TP \w'\-c\ <arg1>:<arg2>\ 'u
.if t .TP .8i
.B \-option
Usage:
.B .B \e\-option
.br
Explanation of what using option does.
.tp
.OPTreq \-c REQ
Usage:
.B .OPTreq \e\-c REQ
.br
Explanation of \-c option with required argument,
.ARG REQ ,
with no space.
.tp
.OPT_req \-c REQ
Usage:
.B .OPT_req \e\-c REQ
.br
Explanation of \-c option with required argument, 
.ARG REQ ,
with a space.
.tp
.OPTopt \-c OPT
Usage: 
.B .OPTopt \e\-c OPT
.br
Explanation of \-c option with optional argument, 
.ARG OPT ,
with no space.
.tp
.OPT_opt \-c OPT
Usage: 
.B .OPT_opt \e\-c OPT
.br
Explanation of \-c option with optional argument, 
.ARG OPT ,
with a space.
.tp
.OPTcolon \-c arg1 arg2
Usage: 
.B .OPTcolon \e\-c arg1 arg2
.br
Explanation of \-c option with colon seperated required
arguments
.ARG arg1 \ and
.ARG arg2 .
.SH BUGS
.LP
Abort could go look to see if you have done any work and refuse to
abort without
.B \-f
if you have.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA pull 1
.SA push 1
.SA resync 1
.SH CATEGORY
.B Repository
