.so ../macros
.TH annotate File %G% "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.SH NAME
bk annotate \- provide annotated listing of source files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.if t \{\
.B bk annotate [-adkmNnu]
.OA c date
.OA r rev
.BI [ files...
.BI |\ -
.B ]
.br
.B bk sccscat [-dmnu]
.BI [ files...
.BI |\ -
.B ]
\}
.if n \{\
bk annotate [-adkmNnu] [-c<date>] [-r<rev>] [files... | -]
.br
bk sccscat [-dmnu] [files... | -]
\}
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Annotated listings are useful for deeper understanding of your source
base, i.e., when you are tracking down bugs.  The annotations add an
extra level of information which can be useful.
.LP
BitKeeper has two kinds of annotations:  annotations of a specific version,
and annotations of all versions (the second form is unique to BitKeeper).
.SH "SPECIFIC VERSIONS"
.LP
The 
.B annotate
command will display a specific version of a file with annotations. 
The default annotations are the revision in which the change was
made and the user who made that change.  Specifying any options
overrides all of the default options.
.SH "ANNOTATE OPTIONS"
.TP
.B -a
Align prefix output in a human readable form.  Used with one of
the following options
.BI [ mNnud ]
.TP
.AN -c date
Get the latest revision before the date.
.TP
.B -d
Prefix each line with the date of last modification
.TP
.B -k
Don't expand RCS or SCCS keywords.
.B -k
is implied by
.B -e
.TP
.B -m
Prefix each line with the revision of last modification
.TP
.B -N
Prefix each line with its line number.
.TP
.B -n
Prefix each line with the filename.
.TP
.AN -r rev
Get this revision.
.TP
.B -u
Prefix each line with the user who last modified it.
.SH "ALL VERSIONS"
.LP
The
.B bk sccscat
command will display 
.B all
lines in in 
.B all
versions of a file, with each version of a line grouped closely with
other versions of that line.  This is useful for determining when a
particular feature was added.
.\"   It can also ???
.SH "SCCSCAT OPTIONS"
.TP
.AN -c date
Do the set of revisions matching 
.I date
.TP
.B -d
Prefix each line with the date of last modification
.TP
.B -k
Don't expand RCS or SCCS keywords.
.B -k
is implied by
.B -e
.TP
.B -m
Prefix each line with the revision of last modification
.TP
.B -N
Prefix each line with its line number.
.TP
.B -n
Prefix each line with the filename.
.TP
.AN -r rev
Do the set of revisions matching 
.I rev
.TP
.B -u
Prefix each line with the user who last modified it.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.B bk help dates
.br
.B bk help get
.br
.B bk help grep
.br
.B bk help ranges
.br
.B bk help sccstool
.SH ALIASES
.BR File (sccscat)
