.so ../macros
.TH sfiles File %G% "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.\"    ======================== Sfiles Help ===========================
.SH NAME
bk sfiles \- generates lists of revision control files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sfiles [\-aAcCdDglkpPRrux] 
.BI [ directories ]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-A
When used with \-C, list all revisions, not just the tip.
.TP
.B \-a
Examine all files, even if listed in BitKeeper/etc/ignore.
.TP
.B \-C
List leaves which are not in a changeset as file:1.3
.TP
.B \-c
List only changed files (locked and modified).
.TP
.B \-D
List directories with no (or empty) SCCS subdirs.
.TP
.B \-d
List directories under SCCS control (have SCCS subdir).
.TP
.B \-g
List the gfile name, not the sfile name.
.TP
.B \-l
List only locked files (p.file and/or z.file).
.TP
.B \-k
List the keys which should be in keys cache.
.TP
.B \-P
(paranoid) Opens each file to make sure it is an SCCS file.
.TP
.B \-p
(paranoid) Opens each file to make sure it is an SCCS file,
but only if the pathname to the file is not ../SCCS/s.*.
.TP
.B \-R
When used with \-C, list files as foo.c:1.3..1.5
.TP
.B \-r
Rebuild the id to pathname cache.
.TP
.B \-u
List only unlocked files.
.TP
.B -v
Be verbose during id rebuild.
.TP
.B \-x
List files which have no revision control files.
.SH NOTES
.LP
Files in BitKeeper/log/ are ignored.
.LP
Revision control files must look like SCCS/s.*,
not foo/bar/blech/s.*
.LP
The \-r option can take an optional repository root but not any other
directories.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA history
.br
.SA ignore
.br
.SA new
