.so ../macros
.TH citool GUI-tools %G% "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.SH NAME
bk citool \- graphical check-in tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk citool
.BI [ dir
.BI or \ file
.IB list ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B citool
command is a graphical interface for checking in modified files.
Without any arguments,
.B citool
finds examines the current repository for
modified files, pending files, and files not under revision control.
Otherwise,
.B citool
will look in the list of arguments for files.  The
arguments are processed by
.B bk
.BR sfind ,
and have to follow the restrictions imposed by
.B bk
.BR sfind .
.LP
The tool has three main windows:  the top window containing the list of
files with modifications, the middle window for entering comments,
and the bottom window for displaying differences and the contents of
new files. 
.LP
The typical process is to move to each file, type in comments, and repeat
until done. When all files are commented, the
.B commit
button is pressed to make the changes part of a ChangeSet.
.LP
You can move around in the file list by clicking on a file or using the
keyboard accelerators Control-N (next file) and Control-P (previous file).
You may add comments, move around, come back, and update the comments.
Nothing is applied until you click
.BR [Commit] .
.LP
The files with the question mark icon are files that are not under 
revision control. The new files can be added by using the mouse to 
click on the question mark icon or by using the Control-t key to 
tag the file.
.LP
When you move to a file, the differences for this file are shown in the
bottom window.  As you are typing comments, it is normal to want to scroll
the differences window (assuming that the differences are larger than
the window).  While this can be done using the mouse and the scrollbar,
the following keyboard accelerators will work at all times, even when
typing in the comments window:
.SH "SCROLLING THE DIFFERENCES"
.if t .TP 1.2i
.if n .TP 1.7i
.B Home
Scroll to the start of the differences
.tp
.B End
Scroll to the end of the differences
.tp
.B Control-b
Scroll the differences up 1 screen
.tp
.B PageUp
Scroll the differences up 1 screen
.tp
.B Control-f
Scroll the differences down 1 screen
.tp
.B PageDown
Scroll the differences down 1 screen
.tp
.B Control-u
Scroll the differences up 1/2 screen
.tp
.B Control-d
Scroll the differences down 1/2 screen
.tp
.B Control-e
Scroll the differences down 1 line
.tp
.B Shift-DownArrow
Scroll the differences down 1 line
.tp
.B Control-y
Scroll the differences up 1 line
.tp
.B Shift-UpArrow
Scroll the differences up 1 line
.SH "MOVING BETWEEN FILES"
.TP 1.2i
.B Control-N
Go to the next file
.TP
.B Control-P
Go to the previous file
.SH "EDITING THE COMMENTS"
.LP
The comments window is a standard TK text widget with word and line 
erase added.  Moving around is down with the arrow keys, backspace
to delete the previous character, Control-w to erase a word, and
Alt-u to erase a line.
.SH MISC
Escape will rerun the diffs in case an external program has changed the file.
.LP
There are a series of buttons on the right.  They perform the following
functions:
.TP 1.2i
.B [Cut comments]
takes the contents of the current comment window and saves them in a buffer.
.TP
.B [Paste comments]
pastes comments saved by the previous button, overwriting any existing comments.
.TP
.B [Commit]
displays all comments in the differences window and asks if you want to commit.
.TP
.B [Edit]
pops you into a simple editor on the current file.
.TP
.B [History]
starts up sccstool on the current file
.TP
.B [Diff tool]
starts up difftool on the previous/current versions of the file.
.TP
.B [Discard]
destroys the changes made to the current file, in other words,
throws away the differences.
.TP
.B [Help]
Starts up the BitKeeper help tool and displays this help.
.TP
.B [Quit]
Quits.  If you have provided comments, this will prompt you again
because quitting without committing throws away those comments.
.SH LOCKING
.LP 
If the repository is locked, and you try to
.BR commit ,
the
.B commit
will fail.
You can wait for the lock to go away and then try the
.B commit
again; it should succeed.  If the lock is an invalid one (left over from an old
remote update), then you can switch to another window and unlock the
repository.   After it is unlocked, the
.B commit
should work.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B bk help ci
