.so ../macros
.TH csettool GUI-tools %G% "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.\"    =============== BitKeeper Graphical ChangeSet Browser ===============
.SH NAME
bk csettool \- graphical changeset browser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk csettool \-r
.I revs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The csettool command is used to view the detailed information about the
specified changeset[s].  The tool displays the list of changes in each
changeset, the ChangeSet history, and (optionally) the differences found
in each file contained in each changeset.
.LP
To see the changes for a particular file, click on the file name
in the top left window and you will see:
.TP
.B \-
the number of diffs in the light blue, middle status window
.TP
.B \-
the old version of the file in the lower left window
.TP
.B \-
the new version of the file in the lower right window
.TP
.B \-
the ChangeSet's comments followed by the delta's comments in
the upper right window
.LP
Use the space bar to move between diffs and files.  Each time you
hit the space bar, the next diff is brought into view.  If you are
on the last diff, the tool moves to the next file. The Next (>>)
buttons and Previous (<<) buttons in the upper left corner will also
allow you to browse the files and diffs.
.SH BINDINGS
.TP 16
.B Home
Scroll both files to the top
.tp
.B End
Scroll both files to the bottom
.tp
.B PageUp
Scroll both files one screen up
.tp
.B PageDown
Scroll both files one screen down
.tp
.B
UpArrow
Scroll both files one line up
.tp
.B DownArrow
Scroll both files one line down
.tp
.B LeftArrow
Scroll both files to the left
.tp
.B RightArrow
Scroll both files to the right
.tp
.B Alt-UpArrow
Make the diffs windows one line bigger and
the lists windows one line smaller.
.tp
.B Alt-DownArrow
Make the diffs windows one line smaller and
the lists windows one line bigger.
.tp
.B q
Quit
.tp
.B space
Next diff, if last diff, then next file
.tp
.B n
Next diff, if last diff, then next file
.tp
.B p
Previous diff, if first diff, then previous file
.tp
.B .
Center the current diff on the screen
.tp
.B N
Next file
.tp
.B P
Previous file
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
.LP
We plan on having a single screen diff window option where the changes
are all shown color coded in one window.  
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B bk help cset
.br
.B bk help difftool
.br
.B bk help ranges
