.so ../macros
.TH "bk check" 8 08/18/00 "\*(BC" \*(BK
.\"    =================== BitKeeper consistency check ===================
.SH NAME
bk -r check \- check repository for consistency
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk \-r check [\-acfRv]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Check is used to make sure that a repository is in a consistent state.
A repository contains files, each of which may have multiple versions.
Groups of versions are called changesets (csets).  Each cset is recorded
in the ChangeSet file.  The ChangeSet file points at the set of deltas in
the set of files.  There are no back pointers but the files do record the
point at which each cset occurs (there can be multiple deltas in a file
all of which belong to one cset; the marker records the cset boundary).
.LP
Since csets are what are propagated between repositories, it is important
that the ChangeSet file be correct.  "Check" is used to make sure that
nothing has gone wrong (and if it has it gives you a rough idea of how
to fix it).
.LP
It currently checks for the following:
.BU 
for each file specified, make sure that deltas marked as recorded in
the ChangeSet file are recorded in the ChangeSet file.
.BU 
each file specified, for each delta of that file which is recorded
in the ChangeSet file, make sure that the delta exists in the file.
.BU 
each file specified, make sure that the file has no unresolved
branches.
.BU 
sure that every delta recorded in ChangeSet file is in the
repository (only with \-a).
.LP
.RE
While you can specify a list of files instead of using 
.B bk \-r
to get all of them, this is not recommended.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a
Ensures that the ChangeSet file and the repository
agree on what files are in the repository.
.tp
.B -c
Check file checksum.
.tp
.B -f
Fix any fixable errors.
.tp
.B -g
List gone keys only.
.tp
.B -p
List deltas which are in more than one cset.
.tp
.B -R
Only do checks which make sense in the RESYNC dir.
.tp
.B -v
Be verbose about files which are OK.  Normally, there is no output
if the repository is OK; only output if things are broken.
.SH CATEGORY
.B Repository
