.so ../macros
.TH files General %G% "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.SH NAME 
files \- summary of
.IR s.file ,
.IR p.file ,
.I z.file
and what they mean
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
For each file under revision control, there are a number of files
associated with the main file.  The following list describes the
purpose of each file:
.TP 1i
.I foo.c
.I gfile
(aka "gotten" file), this is your source file
.TP
.I SCCS/s.foo.c
.IR s.file \ -
the revision history of all versions of the gfile
.TP
.I SCCS/p.foo.c
.IR p.file \ -
the lock file, created when the file is edited.  The pfile
contains the following columns:
.nf
.if n .ta 0i +1.1i +1i +.8i
.if n .sp
.if t .ta 0i +.75i +.75i +.75i
.if t .in +2
.if t .ft CW
parent	new	
revision	revision	user	date/time
1.5	1.6	lm	01/01/2000 12:43:54
.fi
.if n .sp
.if t .in
.if t .ft
This file is an exclusive lock whose existence indicates 
that the gfile has been checked out for editing.  Unlike 
ATT SCCS, BitKeeper allows only one locker at a time.
.TP
.I SCCS/z.foo.c
.IR z.file \ -
a lock file created when locking or checking 
in a new version. This is an exclusive lock used when
updating or locking the s.file.  
.TP
.I SCCS/x.foo.c
.IR x.file \ -
a temporary file which contains the new version
of the s.file under construction.  When the check-in is
finished, the s.file is removed and the x.file is moved
into its place.
.TP
.I SCCS/b.foo.c   
.IR b.file \ -
a temporary backup of local s.files while 
resolve is applying new files. If the application fails,
the b.files are moved back in place, otherwise if the
application succeeds, the b.files are removed.
.TP
.I SCCS/c.foo.c
.IR c.file \ -
a temporary copy of check in comments, currently used only by
.B bk
.BR citool .
