.so ../macros
.TH bkd Repository %G% "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.\"	============== The BitKeeper daemon ==============
.SH NAME
bk bkd \- the BitKeeper daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.if t \{\
.B bk bkd [\-eid] [\-l
.IB log ]
.B [\-P
.IB file ] 
.B [\-p
.IB port ] 
.B [\-t
.IB num ] 
.B [\-u
.IB uid ] 
.B [\-x
.IB cmd ]
.\}
.if n
bk bkd [-eid] [-l<log>] [-P<file>] [-p<port>] [-t<num>] [-u<uid>] [-x<cmd>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The BitKeeper daemon, bkd, is used to get information about a
repository from a remote machine.  It is run in one of two ways,
.sp
.RS .5i
a) via rsh/ssh, i.e., "rsh remote host bkd",
.br
b) as a stand\-alone daemon, i.e., "bkd \-d".
.RE
.LP
The method used depends on how the remote repository is named.
See bk help parent for details on the naming syntax.
.LP
The preferred method is via ssh, since ssh provides a secure channel.
.LP
The stand\-alone daemon method currently has no security, other than the
ability to run in read\-only mode.  The daemon does support compression.
.SH COMMANDS
.LP
The commands are not intended for user access; BitKeeper client programs
interact with the daemon directly.  However, it may be useful to access
the commands directly for debugging.  It is possible to telnet to the
BitKeeper port, in the same way it is possible to telnet to the SMTP port.
.LP
The command summary is below.  The options tend to track the client
commands fairly closely.
.sp
.RS .5i
cd pathname
.br
clone [\-q] [\-z[0\-9]]
.br
help
.br
pull [\-lnq] [\-z[0\-9]]
.br
push [\-q] [\-z[0\-9]]
.br
pwd
.br
rootkey
.br
status [\-v]
.br
version
.RE
.LP
The client commands parse their options, connect to the server, and
send the appropriate commands to complete the action.  When started
with the \-l option, all sent commands are logged.
.SH "ANONYMOUS ACCESS"
.LP
The most common use of the stand\-alone daemon is for anonymous access
to a repository.  To provide read\-only, anonymous access, you can run:
.AX
bk bkd \-d \-xpush
.XA
.LP
This will allow anyone to read (but not write) all repositories on the
system running the daemon.
.LP
If you want to export a single repository, pick a port number, and 
do this:
.AX
cd /u/linux
bk bkd \-d \-p5555 \-xcd \-xpush
.XA
.LP
This says to run in daemon mode, bind to port 5555, and disallow the
"cd" and "push" commands.  By disallowing the "cd" command, the daemon
at port 5555 is tied to the repository in the current working directory
(bkd needs to be run at the root of the repository).  By disallowing the
"push" command, the repository is protected from updates.
.LP
Clients can get to this repository by using the BK URL of
.AX    
bk://host.domain:5555
.XA
.br
i.e.,
.AX
$ bk clone bk://host.domain:5555 my_tree
.XA
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Run as a daemon.
.TP
.B \-e
Exit on any error.
.TP
.B \-i
Interactive, provide prompts.
.TP
.AN \-l log
Log accesses in 
.IR log ;
if log is not specified, then to stderr.
.TP
.AN \-P pfile
Write the pid of daemon process into this file at startup.
.TP
.AN \-p port
Specify an alternative port.  The default port is currently
0x3962 (aka 14690) but that will change once we get a
reserved port. 
.TP
.AN \-t num
Exit after 
.I num 
seconds. (used when debugging)
.TP
.AN \-u uid
Run as UID
.IR uid .
.TP
.AN \-x cmd
Exclude 
.I cmd 
from the allowed command list.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
We use the following in /var/bitkeeper/repositories to provide anonymous 
read only access to some BitKeeper repositories.  This works with the
init script shown below:
.AX
#----------------------\ cut\ here\ --------------------------
/home/bk/LMbench \-p5000 \-xcd \-xpush \-u99
/home/bk/bitcluster \-p6000 \-xcd \-xpush \-u99
/home/bk/one \-p7000 \-xcd \-xpush \-u99
#----------------------\ cut\ here\ --------------------------
.XA
.LP
We use the following as /etc/rc.d/init.d/bitkeeper to start up BitKeeper
on bitkeeper.com:
.AX
#----------------------\ cut\ here\ --------------------------
#!/bin/sh
#
# bitkeeper	Start/stop the bitkeeper daemon.
# 		@(#)bitkeeper.init 1.1 Copyright (c) 2000 Larry McVoy

# Source networking configuration.
if [ \-f /etc/sysconfig/network ]
then	. /etc/sysconfig/network

	# Check that networking is up.
	[ ${NETWORKING} = "no" ] && exit 0
fi
[ \-x /usr/bin/bk ] || exit 0
VAR=/var/bitkeeper

case "$1" in
    start_msg)	echo "Start BitKeeper daemons"
		;;
    stop_msg)	echo "Stop BitKeeper daemons"
		;;
    start)	cd $VAR || exit 1
		test \-f repositories || {
			echo Nothing advertised
			exit 0
		}
		while read dir opts
		do	(
			cd $dir || exit 1
			F=`basename $dir`
			bk bkd $opts \-l$VAR/log.$F \-P$VAR/pid.$F
			echo Started bkd $opts in $dir
			)
		done < repositories
		;;

    stop)	
		cd $VAR || exit 1
		echo Shutting down BitKeeper daemons
		for i in pid.*
		do	kill \-HUP `cat $i`
			rm $i
		done
		;;

    status)	ps \-axf | grep bkd
		;;

    *)		echo "Usage: bitkeeper {start|stop}"
		exit 1
		;;
esac
exit 0
#----------------------\ cut\ here\ --------------------------
.XA
.SH BUGS
.LP
The log files are currently single user because they don't append.
.br
Uses one log file per daemon.
.br
Needs password support.
.br
Needs access control based on authenticated users.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B bk help qs_bkd
.br
.B bk help parent
.br
.B bk help initscripts
.\" help://Repository/anonymous
.\" help://Repository/deamon
.\" help://Repository/daemon
.\" help://Repository/demon
.\" help://Repository/security
