.so ../macros
.TH commit Repository %G% "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.\"    ========== Committing changes to a BitKeeper changeset =========
.SH NAME
bk commit \- commit deltas to a changeset
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk commit [\-dFRqS:y:Y:]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Takes all of your current revisions and adds them to a changeset.
.LP
You can see what will be added to a changeset when you commit by
running:
.AX
$ bk pending
.XA
Pending lists only files which have checked in deltas; files that
are not yet checked in are not shown.  Use 
.B bk status
if you want to see both.
.LP
Using citool is the best way to commit. Not only will citool help
with checking in files, it will also create a changeset if you enter
ChangeSet comments.  If you must do a command line commit, use:
.AX
$ bk commit
.XA
All revisions which you have checked in will become part of a
changeset.  As part of the commit step, you will be prompted for
comments. The comments should describe the changes that you have made.
It's useful to have the output of 
.B bk pending
in another window to see what you did.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Don't run interactively; do the commit with the default comments.
.TP
.B \-q
Run quietly.
.TP
.AN \-S tag
Tag the tree with
.I tag
at the same time as the commit.
.TP
.AN \-Y file
Get check-in comment for changeset from
.IR file .
.TP
.AN \-y x
Set check-in comment of changeset to
.IR x .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B bk help changes
.br
.B bk help citool
.br
.B bk help pending
.br
.B bk help tag
.SH ALIASES
.BR changeset (Repository)
.br
.BR changesets (Repository)
