.so ../macros
.TH import Repository %G% "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.\"    ================= Importing files into BitKeeper =================
.SH NAME
bk import \- import a set of files into a BitKeeper package
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk import [\-efiqrv] [\-l
.IB file ]
.B [\-S
.IB sym ]
.B [\-t
.IB type ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
If you have not yet set up a package, read the bk help setup section.
.LP
If you have a tree full of files which you wish to include, go to
your tree and make sure there is nothing in it except for the files
you want to place under revision control (or see the section on file
specification below).  Then do this:
.AX
$ bk import /path/to/src_files /path/to/package
.XA
This will copy all files *below* /path/to/src_files into the
package directory and check in the initial revision of the files.
Your original files are left untouched.
.SH "FILE SPECIFICATION"
.LP
You can generate the list of files externally, and pass that list
to import.  In that case, the usage is
.AX
$ bk import -l/tmp/list ~/src/files ~/package
.XA
and the list of files must be relative paths, relative to the root
of the "from" directory.  One way to generate the list might be:
.AX
$ cd ~/src/files
$ find . -type f -name '*.[ch]' -print > /tmp/list
$ bk import -l/tmp/list ~/src/files ~/package
.XA
If you want to filter the lists, you can do that as well. One way would
is to edit the /tmp/list file with a text editor.  Another way is to
use bk's interactive mode of setting file inclusions and exclusions.
Suppose that you have a tree which has other stuff in it, such as .o's
or core files, whatever.  You happen to know that the files you want
are all of the form *.c *.h or Makefile and you want to pick up just
these files.  To do that, try the -include and/or -exclude options
and enter the patterns one per line:
.AX
$ bk import -i ~/src_files ~/package
End patterns with "." by itself or EOF
Include>> *.c
Include>> *.h
Include>> Makefile
Include>> .
.XA
Importing from a CVS tree:
.AX
$ bk import -v -tCVS warehouse new
.XA
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e
Prompts for a regular expression to apply to the list
of files.  All matches are excluded.
.TP
.B \-f
Force; do not prompt for list editing.
.TP
.B \-i
Like \-e but includes only files which match.
.TP
.AN \-l file
Use the list of files in 
.IB file .
.TP
.B \-q
Be quiet.
.TP
.B \-r
Do not do rename processing when doing patch imports.
.TP
.AN \-S sym
Add tag 
.I sym
to the changeset created around the import
.TP
.B \-v
Be verbose.
.TP
.AN \-t type
Specify import file type.  
.I type 
can be one of:
.RS .5i
.TP
.B plain
Import plain text files
.tp
.B patch
Import a patch (diffs)
.tp
.B RCS
Import RCS files
.tp
.B CVS
Import CVS files
.tp
.B SCCS
Import SCCS files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B bk help HOWTO
