.so ../macros
.TH parent Repository %G% "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.\"    ============== Setting the parent repository ==============
.SH NAME
bk parent \- show or set the parent repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
.if t \{\
.B bk [\-qr] parent [
.IB repository ]
.\}
.if n
bk [\-qr] parent [<repository>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The parent command prints or sets the default location where the 
bk pull/push commands get/put new work.
.LP
With no argument, print the parent name.  With an argument, set the 
parent to that argument.  The form of the parent can be
.AX
/path/to/repository
.XA
or
.AX
host:relative/or/absolute/path/to/repository
.XA
or
.AX
bk://host[:port]/absolute/path/to/repository
bk://host:port
bk://host
.XA
The first form only works locally and is appropriate for repositories
which are not accessed from the network.
.LP
The second form works locally or remotely and implies ssh or rsh as
the transport used to get to the remote repository.   In general,
this is the best form to use to specify a repository.  If the host
is the same as what 
.B bk gethost
prints, then it will optimize out the host and work locally.
.LP
The third form works locally or remotely and implies that there is a 
BitKeeper daemon running on the remote host at the implied or stated
port.  In the cases where no pathname is specified, there must be
a BK daemon running at the root of the repository.
.LP
The parent is automatically set when a repository is cloned.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-q
Run quietly.
.TP
.B \-r
Remove the parent pointer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA bkd
.br
.SA clone
.br
.SA pull
.br
.SA push
.br
.SA resync
.\" help://Repository/url
