.so ../macros
.TH pull Repository %G% "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.\"    ============== Pulling changes into your repository ==============
.SH NAME
bk pull \- updates the repository from its parent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.if t \{\
.B bk pull [\-ilnqrt] [\-z
.I d
.B ] [
.IB parent ]
.\}
.if n
bk pull [\-ilnqrt] [\-z<d>] [<parent>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
pull updates a repository from its parent.  Changes are retrieved and
automatically applied, if possible.  You will only be asked to resolve
conflicts by hand if a file has overlapping changes (changes where both
repositories have touched the same line in the same file).
.LP
Pull normally runs resolve, the tool which applies the pulled changes,
automatically.  Resolve will look at each change, make sure there are
no conflicts that it can't merge, and apply the change.  You may have to
(or want to) run resolve manually.  If you do not want automatic merges,
i.e., you want to diff them by hand, then use the \-i option.  If resolve
was run automatically and it found conflicts, the changes have _not_ been
applied; you will need to run an interactive resolve to merge and
apply the changes.
.LP
You can override the default parent by specifying a different one.
Doing so changes the parent for the duration of this command only.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i
Turn off automerge feature in resolve.
.TP
.B \-l
Do a long listing of changesets to be sent (like
.B bk changes 
does). May be combined with 
.B \-n 
to get a repository difference summary without any updates.
.TP
.B \-n
Don't actually do it, just say what would be done.
.TP
.B \-q
Be quiet.
.TP
.B \-r
Do not run resolve at all.  You must run 
.B bk resolve 
later.
.TP
.B \-t
Pass 
.B \-t
to resolve (
.B \-t
means do not use the GUI tools.)
.TP
.AN \-z d
Do compression at level 
.IB d ,
if possible, where
.I d
is an integer value 0-9; default is 
.BR \-z6 .
Compression is possible when using ssh or the BK daemon,
but not with rsh.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA bkd
.br
.SA parent
.br
.SA push
.br
.SA resolve
.br
.SA triggers
