.so ../macros
.TH resolve Repository %G% "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.\"    ============== BitKeeper resolve ==============
.SH NAME
bk resolve \- merge and/or apply new work after push/pull/resync
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk resolve [\-aAcdlqrt1234] [\-m
.I merge
.B ] [\-y
.I comment
.B ] [
.I package_root
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
After a 
.BR bk\ push , 
.BR bk\ pull , 
or 
.BR bk\ resync ,
use resolve to merge and/or apply
new work.  Resolve is automatically run by the 
.B bk pull
and
.B bk push
commands, but must be run manually after a 
.BR bk\ resync .
.LP
If you want to preview the new changesets before merging, you can run
.B bk csets 
and that will run csettool on the list of changes (which can
be found in RESYNC/BitKeeper/etc/csets).
.LP
Resolve traverses all of the files, prompting you with a list of files
needing to be merged.  The following are the stages when resolving files:
.BU
create and rename conflicts
.BU 
mode conflicts (file permissions)
.BU
file flag conflicts
.BU
file content conflicts
.LP
In the future, we will be adding resolve stages for the following:
.BU
symbol "conflicts" (local and remote added the "alpha" symbol to
different deltas)
.BU
descriptive text conflicts
.BU
LOD name conflicts
.LP
When there are no conflicts left to be merged, resolve groups any merge
changes into a changeset and moves everything into your repository.
.LP
While it is OK to quit out of resolve without finishing, the repository
will be locked and remain locked until you return to resolve and finish
up the merge process.
.LP
For detailed help on the merge process, see 
.BR bk\ help\ merge .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Automerge.  This will run a diff3\-based merge of
all non-overlapping lines.  If there are overlapping
lines in merged files, the merge will fail and the files
will not be resolved; you have to run resolve again
without the 
.B \-a
option to finish the resolve.
.TP
.B \-A
Auto advance.  Normally, when doing an interactive resolve,
the resolution is not complete until you tell the system
to commit the file ("C" in the content resolve menu).  This
allows for several false starts on a merge, you can use
"m" to merge, decide that you didn't like it, and use
"m" again to try over.  If 
.B \-A
is used, any sort of merge
which completes is immediately used and the resolver 
advances to the next file.
.TP
.B \-c
No conflicts.  This option tells resolve to complete if and
only if new non-conflicting work appears in the patch.
.TP
.B \-d
Debugging (mainly useful to BitKeeper developers).
.TP
.AN \-l log
Log operations to 
.I log 
(or stderr if destination specified).
This option is to provide for audit trails; support is not
yet complete.
.TP
.AN \-m merge
Use 
.I merge 
as the merge program called when you press "m"
in the content resolver.  A merge program takes four file
arguments: the local version of the file, the ancestor
version of the file, the remote version of the file,
and the merged file.  It is the job of the merge program
to merge the changes into the merge file. 
.TP
.B \-q
Be quiet.
.TP
.B \-r
Re-merge.  If you started to resolve, exited the resolver,
and then restarted, files already merged will be skipped.
This options allows you to re-merge files which need
help, yet allows you to skip past the ones you are happy
with by hitting "C" in the resolve menu.
.TP
.B \-t
Text-only. Enables the text-based resolve menu when doing 
the final commit instead of using citool.
.TP
.AN \-y msg
Use 
.I msg 
as the changeset check-in message.  This is option
is typically set by the calling program, i.e., 
.BR bk\ pull .
If 
.I msg 
is not present, resolve will prompt for one
at commit time.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B bk help csets
.br
.B bk help merge
.br
.B bk help pull
.br
.B bk help push
.br
.B bk help resync
