.so ../macros
.TH undo Repository %G% "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.\"    ====================== BitKeeper undo ======================
.SH NAME
bk undo \- Undo a changeset or set of changesets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.if t \{\
.B bk undo [\-fqs] \-a
.IB rev\  | 
.B \-r
.I revs
.\}
.if n
bk undo [\-fqs] \-a<rev> | -r<revs>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The undo command can be used to remove any changeset or set of
changesets.  The list of changesets must be constructed so as to
not leave unmerged branches.  If you look at the ChangeSet file
with sccstool, you may see branches which are closed into the
trunk like so:
.AX
    1.1 -> 1.2 -> 1.3 -----> 1.4 -----> 1.5
            \\                         /
	      +-> 1.2.1.1 -> 1.2.1.2 -+
.XA
In this case, the 1.5 delta is the merge delta and can not be removed
without either removing 1.3 and 1.4 or removing 1.2.1.1 and 1.2.1.2.
In other words, the following undo commands would fail:
.AX
$ bk undo -r1.5			(1)
$ bk undo -r1.4,1.5			(2)
$ bk undo -r1.2.1.2,1.5		(3)
.XA
However, either of these would succeed:
.AX
$ bk undo -r1.3,1.4,1.5		(4)
$ bk undo -r1.2.1.1,1.2.1.2,1.5	(5)
.XA
If you did example #4 above, don't be surprised that the branch
will disappear.  The undo renumbers the revisions to match what the
file should look like with the deltas removed. In other words, if a
portion of the trunk is removed, then a branch will take its place.
.SH WARNING
.LP
You can not undo an undo.  If the data was only present in your
repository, when you undo it, it is gone for good.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.AN \-a rev
Remove all changesets which occurred after 
.IR rev .
If 
.I rev 
is what you want to have be top of trunk,
use this option.
.TP
.B \-f
Force the undo to complete if it can.  Normally, undo will
prompt with a list of deltas which will be removed.
.TP
.B \-q
Run quietly; do not list files.
.TP
.B \-s
Do not save undone changes as a patch.
.TP
.AN \-r revs
Remove the list of changesets specified by 
.IR revs .
.I revs
must be of the form r1,r2,r3, etc.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.SA cset
.br 
.SA stripdel
.br
.SA takepatch
