.\"  this needs more documentation -- email from lm & slib.c
.so ../macros
.TH prs Basics %G% "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.SH NAME
bk prs \- prints revision history (similar to RCS rlog)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.if t \{\
.B bk prs [-abdhmMov]
.OA c date
.OA C rev
.OA r rev
.BI [ files... ]
\}
.if n
bk prs [-abdhmMov] [-c<date>] [-C<rev>] [-r<rev>] [files...]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP .7i
.B -a
Print info on all deltas, not just data deltas.
.TP
.B -b
Reverse the order of the printed deltas.
.TP
.AN -c date
Cut-off dates.  See bk help range for details.
.TP
.AN -C rev
Make the range be all revs that are the same cset as
.IR rev .
.TP
.AN -d spec
Specify output data specification.
.TP
.B -h
Suppress range header.
.TP
.B -m
Print metadata, such as users and symbols.
.TP
.B -M
Do not include branch deltas which are not merged.
.TP
.B -o
Print the set of deltas that were not specified.
.TP
.AN -r rev
Specify a revision, or part of a range.
.TP
.AN -x rev
Exclude rev from the selection in 
.BR -r .
.TP
.B -v
Complain about SCCS files that do not match the range.
.LP
Note that
.I date
may be a symbol, which implies the date of the delta which matches the symbol.
.LP
Range specifications:
.TP .7i
.I -r+
prints the most recent delta
.TP
.I -r1.3..1.6
prints all deltas 1.3 through 1.6
.TP
.I -c9207..92
prints all deltas from July 1 '92 to Dec 31 '92
.TP
-c92..92
prints all deltas from Jan 1 '92 to Dec 31 '92
.TP
-c-1d
prints all deltas made in the last 24 hours; similarly for
.I s/m/h/d/M/Y
for seconds/minutes, hours, days, months, and years.
.\" .SH BUGS
.\" not 100% compatibile with AT&T despecs
