.if \n[NESTED] \{\
.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk attach" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk attach \- attach a component repository to a product repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
bk attach
.[B] \-qlC
.[OPTreq] \-B url
.[OPTequal] \-E e v
.[OPTreq] \-r rev
.ARG from
.[ARG] component
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B bk attach
command is a form of
.BR "bk clone"
used to attach a component repository to a product repository.
The specified repository is cloned and becomes a component within
the product. This command must be run from within the product.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP \-E\*<env\*>=\*<val\*>
.OPTreq \-B url
Set the BAM server url to 
.ARG url
in the destination repository.
.tp
.B \-C
Do not commit the component to the product.
Use this option when you wish to combine the attach event with other
changes to the product.
.tp
.OPTequal \-E env val
Export an environment variable to the 
.B bkd
running in the remote \*(BK repository.
Typically used to pass information to remote triggers.
Only variables with the prefix
.V BKU_
are allowed.
.tp
.B \-l
Clone using hard links instead of copying the data.  
This is faster and saves disk space, but only works 
within filesystems supporting hard links.
.tp
.B \-q 
Run quietly.
.tp
.OPTreq \-r rev
Clone the repository up to and including cset 
.ARG rev .
A changeset number or changeset key can be used to specify
.ARG rev .
.SH SEE ALSO
.SA clone
.SA detach
.SA setup
.SH CATEGORY
.B Product
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is an optional feature of \*[BK]
and must be enabled in your license.
To see if your license has this enabled, run 
.DS
bk lease renew
bk lease show
.DE
If the options field has "product" or "product-line" listed then your
license has this feature enabled.
If not, contact BitMover sales.
.\}
