.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk admin" 1 20%E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk admin \- administer \*(BK files (tags, checksums, validation)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk admin 
.I
options
.BKARGS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The 
.B admin
command is used to create and/or administer \*(BK files.
.SH OPTIONS
.\" Undocumented on purpose:
.\" ATT compat: -a, -e, -d, -n
.\" -s
.if t .TP .8i
.if n .TP 1.6i
.B \-0
add a 1.0 delta if there is not one already.
.nr tp_space .065i
.tp
.OPTopt \-C csetfile
set or remove the changeset file pointer in the 1.0 delta
(very rarely used, \fBnot\fP recommended).
.tp
.B \-D
remove the delta changeset marks (very rarely used, \fBnot\fP recommended).
.tp
.OPTreq \-E enc
force file to be encoded with 
.ARG enc ,
which may be:
.if t .RS .8i
.if n .RS .4i
.if t .tp 1.1i
.if n .tp 1.2i
.if t .ll +1.9i
.if n .ll +1.5i
.BR text
regular text file (typical)
.tp
.B ascii
same as 
.ARG text
.tp
.B binary
force binary file (data will be uuencoded in s.file).
.tp
.RE
.ll
.tp 1.6i
.OPTreq \-f flag
set 
.ARG flag 
which can be any of:
.if t .RS .8i
.if n .RS .4i
.if t .ll +1.1i
.if n .ll +1.1i
.if t .nr INDENT 1.1i  
.if n .nr INDENT 1.2i
.tp \n[INDENT]u
.B BITKEEPER
mark the file as a \*(BK file (very rarely used, \fBnot\fP recommended)
.tp
.OPTreq DEFAULT= r
set the default branch or revision used by the
.BR bk\ get
command.
.tp
.B EXPAND1
expand keywords in first line that contains keywords only (printf conflicts)
EXPAND1 must be explicitly set or set in the BitKeeper/etc/config file.
See bk help config-etc.
.tp
.B EOLN_NATIVE
use the operating system's native end-of-line termination.
EOLN_NATIVE is set to "on" by default.  To make the
default have EOLN_NATIVE be set to "off" put eoln:unix in the
BitKeeper/etc/config file (see bk help config-etc).
.tp
.B MONOTONIC
mark the file as a monotonically increasing file.  Monotonic files do not 
roll backwards with the rest of the repository as a result of a bk undo
or bk clone -r.  Suggested for the BitKeeper/etc/* files.
.tp
.B NOMERGE
do not attempt to automerge this file, treat it as if it were a
binary file and force a choose local or choose remote style merge.
.tp
.B RCS
expand RCS keywords, i.e., $\fIkeyword\fP$ etc.
RCS must be explicitly set or set in the BitKeeper/etc/config file.
See bk help config-etc.
.tp
.B SCCS
expand SCCS keywords, i.e., %\fIK\fP% etc.
SCCS must be explicitly set or set in the BitKeeper/etc/config file.
See bk help config-etc.
.tp
.B YEAR4
display dates as 4 digit years 
.RE
.LP
.if t .TP .8i
.if n .TP 1.6i
.OPTreq \-F f
delete flag 
.ARG f ,
reverting to default behavior
.tp
.B \-h
check s.file structure in general, but limited to \*[ATT] features.
.tp
.B \-hh
as above, but also check \*(BK structure.
.tp
.B \-hhh
as above, but also check time stamps.
.tp
.B \-H
same as -h, plus check that file contents are ASCII.
.tp
.OPTopt \-i file
read initial text from
.ARG file
(default stdin).
.tp
.OPTreq \-m mode
set the mode of the file;
.ARG mode
is either in octal or in the form 
.BR -rwxrwxrwx .
.tp
.OPTreq \-M merge
Mark branch specified by revision
.ARG merge
as merged into 
.ARG rev ,
if specified, or top of trunk.
.tp
.OPTopt \-p path
set path of the most recent delta to 
.ARG path ,
if
.ARG path
was specified, otherwise use the current file location.  Note: not a timesafe
operation, typically used only by 
.BR bk\ import .
.tp
.B \-q
run quietly.
.tp
.OPTreq \-r rev
may be used with 
.B \-M
to specify a revision other than top of trunk,
and, when not in a \*(BK repository, with 
.B \-i
to specify the initial revision.
.tp
.OPTequal -S sym rev
associate symbolic name (tag)
.ARG sym
with revision
.ARG rev .
.tp
.OPTreq \-t file
read description text from 
.ARG file
and replace the current descriptive text, if any.
.tp
.B \-T
clear description text.
.tp
.B \-u
force all timestamps to be increasing (very dangerous, this changes the keys).
.tp
.OPTreq \-y comment
make 
.ARG comment
be the checkin comment for the initial checkin (only valid with 
.B \-i
and
.BR \-n ).
.tp
.B \-z
recalculate file checksum.
.tp
.OPTreq \-Z alg
compress stored s.file with 
.ARG alg
which may be:
.if t .RS .8i
.if n .RS .4i
.if t .tp 1.1i
.if n .tp 1.2i
.if t .ll +1.9i
.if n .ll +1.5i
.B  gzip
uses the
.BR gzip (1)
compression algorithm to compress the data section of the s.files.
.tp
.B none
no compression
.RE
.SH BUGS
.LP
This command does way too much and is likely to be split apart.
Do not depend on these options for scripts.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.SA chmod 1
.SA delta 1
.SA get 1
.SA prs 1
.SA tag 1
.SA keywords
.SA config-etc
.SH CATEGORY
.B Admin
