.so bk-macros
.TH "bk approve" 1 20%E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk approve \- review and approve changesets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Bc bk approve [
.OPTreq \-r rev
.Bc ] [
.OPTreq \-t approval_tag
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B bk approve 
command is used to review all changes added to a repository since the
last approval.  
.B bk approve
walks the user through
each file changed since the last approval, shows the differences, gives
the user a chance to edit the changes and/or comment on the changes.
.LP
For each file, the user is prompted with the file name.  Hitting return
will show the current list of command options.  Any command option which
is likely to produce more than a screenful of output is run through 
$PAGER (or more if $PAGER is not set).
The command list as of the writing of this manual page is:
.TP .5i
a
approve all changes and end the approval process.
.tp
c
run $EDITOR to generate comments for this file.  Note: this is generally
unneeded, the graphical checkin tool is run at the end.
.tp
d
do unified diffs of the two versions of the file.
.tp
dd
do regular diffs of the two versions of the file.
.tp
D
diff the two versions of the file graphically.
.tp
e
run $EDITOR to edit the most recent version of the file.
Note: the diffs are in "filename@@" for easy inclusion in another buffer.
.tp
f
run the graphical file merge on the two versions of the file.
.tp
h
show the history of unapproved changes in this file.
.tp
H
graphically show the history of unapproved changes in this file.
.tp
l
list all files that have changed since the last approval.
.tp
n
go to next file.
.tp
p
diff all changes in all files since the last approval point.
.tp
q
quit the approval process, leaving it unfinished.
.LP
Note that if a revision is used instead of the default last approval point,
all of the above comments referring to the approval point really refer to 
the specified revision.
.LP
Editing the changes may be done with the \*(BK file merge tool; if this
is used then the left file is the version as of the last approval and 
the right version is the current version of the file.
.LP
When all files have been examined, the last step is to group the changes
(if any) in a changeset, and then to move the approve tag forward to that
changeset (or the most recent changeset if no changes were checked in).
.SH OPTIONS
.if t .TP .75i
.if n .TP 1.25i
.OPTreq \-r rev
Use
.ARG rev
as the last approval point instead of the default which is the most recent
changeset with an 
.B approved
tag.
.tp
.OPTreq \-t tag
Use
.ARG tag
as the approval tag instead of the default
.BR approved .
.SH WARNING
If 
.B bk approve
is run in a tree with modified files, those modified files will be used
rather than the latest checked in files.  This can result in the approval
process being mixed in with new work.  The suggested approach is to run this
command in a clean tree.
.SH BUGS
It might be nice to have a way to check in comments even if the file is
left alone.  Sort of a poor man's review notes.  We intend to address
this need with a different tool.
.SH CREDITS
The idea for this command came from Jack Moffitt <jack@icecast.org>
as well as Linus Torvalds.
.SH CATEGORY
.B File
