.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk abort" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk abort \- abort a failed pull or push
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk abort
.[B] \-f
.[ARG] repository_root
.if \n[NESTED] \{\
.br
.B bk abort
.[B] \-S
.\}
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The abort command can be used to clean up a failed update of a repository
so that you can try the update again.  Updates sometimes fail, leaving
the
.B PENDING
and
.B RESYNC
directories behind.  Since the existence of the
.B RESYNC
directory acts as a global repository lock, you probably don't
want to leave it there for an extended period of time.
.LP
If the update (i.e., a
.B bk pull
or
.BR "bk push" )
failed and there has been no
manual resolve work done yet, there is no harm in aborting and trying
again.  If manual resolution has been done, it may be worth the effort
to figure out what went wrong and try to fix it.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
Do not prompt for confirmation, just do it.
.if \n[NESTED] \{\
.TP
.B \-S
In a nested repository, limit the abort to this component.  Typically
used to clean up after a port command.
.\}
.SH FILES
.TP PENDING
.B PENDING
This directory, found at the root of your repository, is used to hold 
incoming data while it is transferred.
.tp
.B RESYNC
This directory, found at the root of your repository, is used to hold 
copies of your revision control files while they are being merged.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Abort should go look to see if you have done any merging and refuse to
abort without
.B \-f
if you have.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA pull
.SA push
.SA resolve
.SH CATEGORY
.B Repository
