.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk components" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk components \- list components in a product
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk components
.[B] \-hmP
.[OPTreq] -r rev
.[OPTreq] -s component
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B bk components
command is used to list all or some of the repositories that make up a product.
Strictly speaking, a product is different than a component, but in the context
of this command the product is just another repository to be listed.
.LP
With no options, this command lists all repositories that make up the product,
regardless of whether the repositories are all present or not.  
There are options to restrict the listing to the subset that is present
in this product instance, and/or to restrict the listing to one or more
aliases.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP \-s\*<comp\*>
.B \-h
restrict the listing to those components which are present (here).
.tp
.B \-m
restrict the listing to those components which are not present (missing).
.tp
.B \-P
include the product in the list as well.
.tp
.OPTreq \-r rev
list the components as of the
.ARG rev 
version of the product.
.tp
.OPTreq \-s comp
restrict the listing to the subset implied by
.ARG comp .
If this option is repeated the implied subset is the union of all
specified components.
.ARG comp
may be a component or an alias for a set of components.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA Howto-Product
.SA alias
.SA attach
.SA alias
.SA product
.SH CATEGORY
.B Product
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is an optional feature of \*[BK]
and must be enabled in your license.
To see if your license has this enabled, run 
.DS
bk lease renew
bk lease show
.DE
If the options field has "product" or "product-line" listed then your
license has this feature enabled.
If not, contact BitMover sales.
