.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk csetprune" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk csetprune \- shrink a repository by removing files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk csetprune [\fIoptions\fP]
.[B] \- < keylist
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B csetprune
command is used to prune certain files from the repository.  These files are
removed in a way which is permanent, i.e., the prune cannot be undone.
.LP
The command operates on a list of file keys (sometimes called \*(BK inodes).
Each file associated with a key is 
.B removed
from the repository and from all changesets in the ChangeSet file.  If a 
changeset becomes empty as a result of the key removal,
then that changeset is removed
from the ChangeSet file history.  If a removed changeset had a tag, the 
tag is moved to the closest non-removed ancestor in the ChangeSet file.  
If that ancestor was already tagged with the same tag, the duplicate tag
is discarded.
.LP
After all files have been removed, the identity of the ChangeSet file
is changed (using
.BR "bk newroot" )
and the remaining files are \*(lqreparented\*(rq
to the new ChangeSet file.
.SH OPTIONS 
.TP -C\*<component-list\*>n
.OPTreq \-c component-path
Specify a path to rebase the repository.
For example, specifying src means that src/get.c would be kept
and renamed get.c, while doc/howto would be pruned.
.tp
.OPTreq \-C component-list
Specify a file listing all the components.
This is needed for handling of "deep nests" where src/ and src/libc
may each be components.  When processing src/, csetprune needs to
know to ignore files in src/libc.
.tp
.B \-E
Keep empty cset nodes.
Only needed as part of creating an product.
.tp
.B \-g
Add the rootkeys from the gone file to the list of keys to prune.
.tp
.OPTreq \-k 16hexDigits
Specify the
.ARG 16hexDigits
used in a repository root key.
This is needed when doing a csetprunes over time on
same key set and wanting the resulting repository to communicate
with a repository created by an earlier csetprune.
.tp
.B \-N
Do not compress the serials in the changeset file.
Needed for building a product.
.tp
.B \-q
Do the operation quietly.
.tp
.B \-S
Keep the symbol structure intact.
This is needed when doing a series of csetprunes over time on
same key set and wanting the resulting repository to communicate
with a repository created by an earlier csetprune.
Without this option, the internal symbol graph structure is
streamlined.
.tp
.B \-X
Prune files that move across a component boundary and are no longer
in that component as of the time of the prune.
.SH "GENERATING KEYS"
.LP
The
.B bk log
command may be used to generate the list of keys.  
When generating keys, it is important to realize that looking in a particular
subdirectory is likely to miss some of the files that you may want to remove.
The files may have been moved to another directory or they may have been 
removed (which is really just a move to the
.B BitKeeper/deleted
subdirectory).
.LP
The following command will generate a list of keys for all files originally
created in the
.B junk
subdirectory, including all deleted and/or moved
files:
.DS
bk -r log -hr+ -nd:ROOTKEY: | grep '|junk/'
.DE
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Suppose there is a repository which has two major subsections, called
.B docs
and
.B src
respectively.  The repository has grown to be too
large and the goal is to split it in two.  The process for doing so would
be to 
.IP (1) 4
Make sure all users have pushed their changes into the main repository.
Changes made after the split will have to exported as a traditional patch
and imported, which loses the checkin comments.
.IP (2)
Clone the repository twice, once for each of
.B docs
and
.BR src .
.IP (3)
In each new repository, strip out the files which will be in the other
repository.
.LP
Commands which will do this:
.DS
bk clone master src
bk clone master docs
# Remove the docs files from the src repository
cd src
bk -r log -hr+ -nd:ROOTKEY: | grep '|docs/' | bk csetprune
# Remove the src files from the docs repository
cd ../docs
bk -r log -hr+ -nd:ROOTKEY: | grep '|src/' | bk csetprune
.DE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA newroot
.SA log
.SA sfiles
.SH CATEGORY
.B Admin
