.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk config-gui" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME 
bk config-gui \- configuration for \*(BK graphical tools
.\" XXX TP indents could use some tweaking 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\*[BK] uses a configuration file called 
.B config-gui
for the 
configuration of the \*(BK graphical tools.
The configuration file is used to modify
colors, fonts, and widget dimensions. 
.LP
The location of this configuration file can be determined
for your platform by running the command
.BR "bk\ dotbk" .
This command will return the pathname of the directory where
the \*(BK graphical tools will look for the 
.B config-gui
file.
.LP
The config file must be a valid tcl program as it is
evaluated by the \*(BK GUI tools (which are also tcl/tk programs).
The point of being a
program is that tcl code may be added to the config file
in order to customize the gui based on arbitrary values such
as machine name, screen size, etc.  For example, if all screens
of a certain size were known to be LCD screens (typically laptops),
then the following technique could be used to get colors more
appropriate for those screens:
.DS
if {[winfo screenwidth .] <= 1024} {
	# These show up better on LCD displays.
	set gc(oldColor) lightseagreen
	set gc(newColor) gray
	set gc(fm3.handColor) yellow
}
.DE
.LP
The point of the
.B config-gui
file is to change configuration options.
A typical line looks like this:
.ft R
.DS
set gc(oldColor) #f0f0f0
.DE
and the meanings for each part of that line are:
.DS
.ta +1.4i
set	tcl syntax for assigning variables
gc(oldColor)	configuration option
#f0f0f0	hexadecimal color value
.DE
Each variable in the config file may take one of two forms, 
tool specific or global.  Tool specific variables, which apply only
to the named tool, have the tool
name as a prefix, i.e.,
.DS
set gc(cset.fixedFont)  {fixed 12 roman}
set gc(buttonColor)     blue
.DE
whereas global variables, which apply to all tools unless there is a
tool specific version defined as well, look like
.DS
set gc(fixedBoldFont) {fixed 12 roman bold}
.DE
As an example, if you
want pink buttons in 
.BR "bk citool" ,
yellow buttons in
.BR "bk helptool" ,
and blue in all of the rest of the tools, add the 
following to your config file:
.DS
set gc(buttonColor) blue
set gc(ci.buttonColor) pink
set gc(help.buttonColor) yellow
.DE
.LP
The tool names used to get to tool specific
variables (or to have a change only apply to that tool) are the
GUI tool's name with the trailing \*(lqtool\*(rq dropped, i.e.,
\*(lqdiff\*(rq for \*(lqdifftool\*(rq.
.SH TCL INFORMATION
The following tcl/tk commands may be useful for display specific
customization:
.TP "\f(CW[winfo screenheight .]\fP"
\f(CW[winfo depth .]\fP
returns the color depth of the screen in bits, i.e., 16 means the screen
can do 65536 different colors.
.tp
\f(CW[winfo screen .]\fP
Returns the name of the screen in the form displayName.screenIndex,
i.e., \*(lqdisks.bitmover.com:0.0\*(rq.
.tp
\f(CW[winfo screenheight .]\fP
returns the height of the screen in pixels.
.tp
\f(CW[winfo screenwidth .]\fP
returns the width of the screen in pixels.
.SH GUI CONFIGURATION
.SS GLOBAL CONFIGURATION
The following is a list of variables used by the various gui tools.
Each of these needs to be in a statement like: 
.DS
set gc(\c
.ARGc variable
)\ \c
.ARG value
.DE
.ft R
but in the list below we just show the 
.ARG variable
part.
.nr I 18
.TP \fBfixedBoldFont\fP
.B fixedFont
Font used in all of the text widgets such as file lists,
entry boxes, and text widgets showing contents of files.
Defaults to values that match appropriate system defaults.
.tp
.B fixedBoldFont
Bold font used to highlight text such as difference within
lines in
.BR "bk difftool" .
Defaults to values that match appropriate system defaults.
.tp
.B buttonFont
Font used in buttons.
Defaults to values that match appropriate system defaults.
.tp
.B scrollWidth
Width of the scrollbar widget in pixels. Default:\ 12
in everything except 
.B bk helptool
where the default is 14.
.tp
.B buttonColor
Color of button when in an unselected state. Default:\ #d0d0d0
.tp
.B listBG
Color for the help topic widget and list backgrounds
Default:\ #e8e8e8
.tp
.B newColor
Color of the newer revision or diff.
Default:\ #a8d8e0
.tp
.B oldColor
Color of the older revision or diff.
Default:\ #b48cff
.tp
.B noticeColor
Color for warnings and messages.  Default:\ #b0b0e0
.tp
.B searchColor
Highlight color for search matches. Used in
.B bk difftool
and
.BR "bk revtool" .
Default:\ yellow
.tp
.B selectColor
Color of the current file in
.B bk citool
and
.BR "bk csettool" .
Color of the current topic in
.BR "bk helptool" .
Default:\ yellow
.tp
.B statusColor
Status windows in
.BR "bk csettool" ,
.BR "bk difftool" ,
and
.BR "bk renametool" .
Default:\ lightblue
.tp
.B warnColor
Color of the error messages. Used in
.BR "bk citool" ,
.BR "bk difftool"
and
.BR "bk csettool" .
Default:\ yellow
.tp
.B textBG
Background color for text windows. Used in all of
the tools.
Default:\ white
.tp
.B textFG
Text color.  Used in all of the tools, Default:\ black
.tp
.B scrollColor
Color of the scrollbar slider and end arrows.
Default:\ #d9d9d9
.tp
.B troughColor
Color of the scrollbar troughs.  Default:\ lightblue
.tp
.B BG
Background color for miscellaneous widgets not listed
above. Default:\ #f0f0f0
.tp
.B diffHeight
Height of a difference window in number of lines. Used
in
.BR "bk citool" ,
.BR "bk csettool" ,
.BR "bk difftool" ,
.BR "bk fmtool" ,
and
.BR "bk renametool" .
Default:\ 30 in everything except
.B bk difftool 
where it is 50 lines.
.tp
.B diffWidth
Width of a difference window in number of characters.
Used in
.BR "bk csettool" ,
.BR "bk difftool" ,
and
.BR "bk fmtool" ,
and
.BR "bk renametool" .
Default:\ 65
.tp
.B geometry
Default size/location. Follows the standard X11 notation.
See 
.BR X (1).
Geometry is WIDTHxHEIGHT+XOFF+YOFF.
.RS
.TP \fB+XOFF\fP
.B +XOFF
The left edge is to be placed XOFF
pixels from the left edge of the screen
.tp
.B \-XOFF
The right edge is to be placed XOFF
pixels from the right edge of the screen
.tp
.B +YOFF
The top edge of the window is to be
placed YOFF pixels from the top of the screen
.tp
.B \-YOFF
The bottom edge of the window is to be
placed YOFF pixels from the bottom of the screen
.LP
For example, a value of \*(lq+0+0\*(rq indicates that the tool
should be placed at the upper left of the screen.
Default:\ none
.RE
.tp
.B mergeHeight
Height of a merge window. Used in
.BR "bk fmtool" .
Default 20
.tp
.B mergeWidth
Width of a merge window. Used in
.BR "bk fmtool" .
Default 80
.tp
.B tabwidth
The width of a tab in average sized characters. 
Default:\ 8.
.tp
.B quit
Key used to exit from the gui tools. Default:\ <Control-q>
.SS CITOOL CONFIGURATION
.TP \fBci.commentsHeight\fP
.B ci.commentsHeight
height of the comments window.
.tp
.B ci.diffHeight
height of the diffs window (the lower window).
.tp
.B ci.display_bytes
Number of bytes to show in new files in
.BR "bk citool" .
If set to 0, the entire
file is displayed. Default:\ 8192
.tp
.B ci.editHeight
Height of the popup editor.  Default:\ 30
.tp
.B ci.editWidth
Width of the popup editor.  Default:\ 80
.tp
.B ci.excludeColor
Color of the exclude icon (X character). Default:\ red
.tp
.B ci.filesHeight
number of files in the top window.
.tp
.B ci.rescan
Set this to option to 1 if you would like
.B bk citool
to run again after
doing the commit. Rescanning is useful if you do development in the
manner where you modify many files that logically belong to separate
changesets. This option then allows you to stay in
.B bk citool
and create different changesets for the files without restarting
citool each time. Default:\ 0
.SS CSETTOOL CONFIGURATION
.TP \fBci.commentsHeight\fP
.B cset.annotation
Annotation options to apply when getting files to be diffed. 
See the
.Q \-a
option to
.BR "bk co" . 
Example:
.QR \-aum . 
Default: \*(lq\|\*(rq (do not display annotations)
.tp
.B cset.listHeight
Number of lines in the list windows.
Default:\ 12
.SS DIFFTOOL CONFIGURATION
.TP \fBci.commentsHeight\fP
.B diff.diffHeight
Number of lines in the diff windows.
Default:\ 50
.tp
.B diff.searchColor
Highlight color for search matches.
Default:\ lightblue
.SS FM3TOOL CONFIGURATION
.TP \fBfm3.toggleAnnotations\fPn
.B fm3.charColor
Color used to highlight portions of a line which has changed.
Default:\ orange
.tp
.B fm3.comments
Boolean which controls the display of the comments window at the top.
Default:\ 1 (on).
.tp
.B fm3.escapeButtonBG
Background color of the edit mode escape button.
Default:\ black.
.tp
.B fm3.escapeButtonFG
Foreground color of the edit mode escape button.
Default:\ yellow.
.tp
.B fm3.firstDiff
Keyboard accelerator for going to the first change.
Default:\ \*(lq\-\*(rq.
.tp
.B fm3.handColor
Color used to highlight hand selected merge choices in the side by side 
local and remote diff windows.
Default:\ lightyellow.
.tp
.B fm3.lastDiff
Keyboard accelerator for going to the last change.
Default:\ \*(lq+\*(rq.
.tp
.B fm3.mergeColor
Color used to highlight merge choices, both manual and automatic, in the 
lower merge window.
Default:\ lightblue.
.tp
.B fm3.nextConflict
Keyboard accelerator for going to the next conflict (skips automerged changes).
Default:\ \*(lq}\*(rq.
.tp
.B fm3.nextDiff
Keyboard accelerator for going to the next change.
Default:\ \*(lq]\*(rq.
.tp
.B fm3.prevConflict
Keyboard accelerator for going to the previous conflict
(skips automerged changes).
Default:\ \*(lq{\*(rq.
.tp
.B fm3.prevDiff
Keyboard accelerator for going to the previous change.
Default:\ \*(lq[\*(rq.
.tp
.B fm3.sameColor
Color used to highlight the portion of a conflict consisting of unchanged lines.
Default:\ #1cc7d0.
.tp
.B fm3.showEscapeButton
When entering edit mode, if this variable is set to 1 a button will be
displayed that you can click on to exit edit mode.
Default:\ 1.
.tp
.B fm3.spaceColor
Color used to highlight the beginnings of lines which are 
\*(lqspacers\*(rq inserted to make the changes line up horizontally.
Default:\ black.
.tp
.B fm3.toggleAnnotations
Keyboard accelerator for toggling the display of annotations.
Default:\ \*(lqz\*(rq.
.tp
.B fm3.toggleGCA
Keyboard accelerator for toggling the display of the GCA.
Default:\ \*(lqx\*(rq.
.tp
.B fm3.undo
Keyboard accelerator for undoing the last merge selection.
Default:\ \*(lqu\*(rq.
.SS HELPTOOL CONFIGURATION
.TP \fBrev.commentHeight\fP
.B help.linkColor
Color of the hyperlinks in
.BR "bk helptool" .
Default:\ blue
.tp
.B help.scrollbars
The location of the two scrollbars in helptool.  The value should be two
characters with each one being L or R.  The first character indicates the
position of the topic list scrollbars as Left or Right, while the second
character specifies the position of the content scrollbar.
Default:\ RR
.tp
.B help.topicsColor
Highlight color for topic search matches.
Default:\ orange
.tp
.B help.height
Number of rows to display in
.BR "bk helptool" .
Default:\ 50
.tp
.B help.width
Number of columns to display in
.BR "bk helptool" . Default:\ 72
.tp
.B help.exact
Only return full word/phrase matches.
Default:\ 0, set to 1 to enable.
.SS RENAMETOOL CONFIGURATION
.TP \fBrev.commentHeight\fP
.B rename.listHeight
Height of the file list widget in
.B bk renametool
(in lines). Default:\ 8
.SS REVTOOL CONFIGURATION
.TP \fBrev.commentHeight\fP
.B rev.canvasBG
Color of the graph background. Default:\ #9fb6b8
.tp 
.B rev.commentBG
Background color of the comment window in the annotated listing. 
Default:\ lightblue
.tp
.B rev.arrowColor
Color of the arrows connecting the revision boxes.
Default:\ darkblue
.tp
.B rev.mergeOutline
Color of the box surrounding the merge revisions.
Default:\ darkblue
.tp
.B rev.revOutline
Color of the box surrounding the regular revisions.
Default:\ darkblue
.tp
.B rev.revColor
Fill color of the unselected node. Default:\ #9fb6b8
.tp
.B rev.selectColor
Highlight color for the selected annotated line. Default:\ #adb8f6
.tp
.B rev.commentHeight
Height of the comment window above the annotated file listing. Default:\ 5
.tp
.B rev.textWidth
Width of widget that displays the file content. Default:\ 92
.tp
.B rev.annotate
Arguments to the annotate command. Default:
.QR \-Aur .
.tp
.B rev.textHeight
Height of widget that displays the file content. Default:\ 50
.tp
.B rev.showHistory
The time period of revisions that are shown. The value needs to be a
valid entry for the
.Q \-R
option to
.BR bk log .
Default:\ 1M
.tp
.B rev.tagOutline
Color of the outline around nodes in the ChangeSet graph that have
a tag associated with them. If this value is the empty string no
outline will be drawn.
Default:\ yellow
.tp
.B rev.dateColor
Color of the date text at the bottom of graph.
Default:\ #181818
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B Any Tcl/Tk documentation
.br
.BR X (1)
.br
.SA citool
.SA csettool
.SA difftool
.SA fmtool
.SA fm3tool
.SA helptool
.SA revtool
.SA renametool
.\" help://GUI
.\" help://gui
.\" help://GUI-config
.\" help://gui-config
.\" help://gui config
.\" help://gui configuration
.SH CATEGORY
.B Overview
.br
.B Admin
.br
.B GUI-tools
