.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk conflicts" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk conflicts \- list unresolved files which contain conflicts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk conflicts
.[B] \-dDfrvS
.FILES
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B conflicts
command lists unmerged files which contain content conflicts and need to
be resolved.
Both filenames and directory names may be specified and they are treated
as in
.BR "bk gfiles" .
Only files that contain conflicts are actually listed.
.LP
Any options specified will operate only on the set of files that would
normally be listed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP \fB\-vv\fPn
.B \-d
Invoke
.B bk diffs
on the file, showing the differences between the local
and remote files.
.tp
.B \-D
Like
.B \-d
but using the graphical diff tool instead of text diffs.
.tp
.B \-f
Invoke the 3-way filemerge in read-only mode.  This is useful in case
the developer working on a particular merge wants a second person to see
the conflict in question without the danger of overwriting the merged
file.
.tp
.B \-r
Invoke revtool, highlighting the GCA, LOCAL, and REMOTE versions in the file.
.tp
.B \-S
When  used in a nested collection, treat the repository
as if it were detached rather than as part of the  collection.
.tp
.B \-v
Verbose listing.  The output lists the files that match the filenames or
directories specified, along with the number of non-automerged conflicts
in the file.
.tp
.B \-vv
More verbose listing.
As above but shows the number of lines in conflict with the authors of
those lines.
.SH EXAMPLES
.DS
$ \f(CBbk conflicts '*.h'\fP
src/bkd.h
src/logging.h
src/mdbm/common.h
src/mdbm/mdbm.h
src/sccs.h
src/win32.h
.DE
.DS
$ \f(CBbk conflicts -v '*.h'\fP
src/bkd.h has 2 conflict blocks
src/logging.h has 2 conflict blocks
src/mdbm/common.h has 1 conflict block
src/mdbm/mdbm.h has 3 conflict blocks
src/sccs.h has 3 conflict blocks
src/win32.h has 1 conflict block
.DE
.DS
$ \f(CBbk conflicts -vv 'src/logging.h'\fP
src/logging.h has 2 conflict blocks
  63 local lines by wscott
   7 local lines by lm
  33 remote lines by wscott
   5 remote lines by lm
.DE
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.SA diffs
.SA difftool
.SA fm3tool
.SA resolve
.SA resolving
.SA revtool
.SA gfiles
.SH CATEGORY
.B Repository
