.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk delta" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk delta \- check in modified files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk delta
.[B] \-acflpqu
.[OPTreq] \-D file
.[OPTreq] \-y msg
.BKARGS
.br
.B bk delta
.[B] \-acflpqu
.[OPTreq] \-D file
.[OPTreq] \-Y file
.BKARGS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B bk delta
command is used to check in changes made to revision controlled files.
This command is fairly rich in features and is the preferred interface
for scripting.  For interactive checkins, 
.B "bk citool" 
is the preferred interface.
.LP
After a delta saves the modifications in a file, the state of the user file
is controlled by the 'checkout' config option and the
.B \-l
and
.B \-u
options below.  In checkout:edit (aka
.BR \-l )
mode (the default for new repositories)
the file is left unmodifed in an edited/writable state.
In checkout:get (aka
.BR \-u )
mode, the file is unlocked and made read-only.
In checkout:none mode, the file is removed after its contents has
been recorded. The file is removed even if no changes are found.
.LP
By default,
.B bk delta
with no file arguments operates on all files in the current directory.
If you want to disable this behavior, for example to prevent accidental
checkins, you can set the
.V BK_NODIREXPAND
environment variable to a value of 1.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP \-y\*<comment\*>
.B \-a
Normally, 
.B bk delta
is used to modify existing files.
This option changes bk delta to act like bk new for new files and bk delta
for existing files.
The usefulness of this option is more apparent when you consider having
a mixed list of files, some under revision control and some not.
For example,
.DS
bk -Axc delta -a -y'mass checkin'
.DE
runs
.B bk new
on all the new files and
.B bk delta
on all the modified
files.  When called with this option,
.B bk delta
does not create a null delta on an edited but unmodified file.
.tp
.B \-c
Take checkin comments from 
.BI SCCS/c. filename\fR.
It is an error if the c.file does not exist.
.tp
.OPTreq \-D file
Take RCS format (diff -n or bk diff -hn) diffs from
.if t .IR file .
.if n <file>.
.tp
.B \-f
Force the creation of a null delta even if there are no changes to the file.
.tp
.B \-l
Follow check in with a locked check out like
.QR "bk edit" .
.tp
.OPTreq \-M mode
Set the permissions on the new delta to
.if t .IR mode .
.if n <mode>.
More commonly used with bk new.
.tp
.B \-p
Print differences before prompting for comments.
.tp
.B \-q
Run silently.
.tp
.B \-u
Follow check in with an unlocked check out.
.tp
.OPTreq \-Y file
Use the comment specified in 
.ARG file
for comments for all files.
.tp
.OPTreq \-y comment
Sets the revision comment to 
.if t .IR comment .
.if n <comment>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA citool
.SA get
.SA edit
.SA new
.SH CATEGORY
.B File
.\" help://ci
