.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk fixtool" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk fixtool \- fix up pending changes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk fixtool
.[B] \-fpsuw
.FILES
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bk fixtool
allows you to revise changes made to one or more working files prior to
creating a delta.
Typically, this feature is used immediately before a check in when it is
realized that that there is unwanted work, such as debugging messages,
mixed in with useful work which should be saved.
.LP
.B bk fixtool
calls
.Q bk gfiles \-c
to find files which have been changed.
The default is to find all files which have been changed but this may be
controlled by specifying a set of files and/or directories.
.LP
For each changed file 
.B bk fixtool
.LI
clears the screen
.li
shows the changes (via
.BR "bk diffs" )
.li
and prompts for an action.
.LP
The action must be a letter followed by
.QR Enter .
The choices are:
.TP
.B n
(no) skips this file and continues to the next file.
.tp
.B q
(quit) stop processing files.
.tp
.B u
(unedit) discards all changes made to the named file.
.tp
.B y
(yes) run 
.B bk fmtool
on the previously checked in version of the file and the current working file.
This is most commonly used to remove debugging statements while leaving the
new work.
.br
.B Note:  
When you have selected the changes you want, clicking
.Q Done
saves your merges, overwriting the current working file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
forces the answer to all prompts to be
.QR y .
.tp
.B \-p
passed through to 
.B bk diffs
to get procedural diffs.
.tp
.B \-s
passed through to 
.B bk diffs
to get side-by-side diffs.
.tp
.B \-u
passed through to 
.B bk diffs
to get unified diffs.
.tp
.B \-w
passed through to 
.B bk diffs
to ignore whitespace in diffs.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA citool
.SA diffs
.SA fmtool
.SH CATEGORY
.B File
.\" XXX not a GUI tool...
.\".br
.\".B GUI-tools
.br
.B Repository
