.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk filetypes" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME 
bk filetypes \- summary of \*(BK file types
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
For each file under revision control, there are a number of files
associated with the main file.  
The following list describes the purpose of each file:
.TP \fBSCCS/s.\|\fP\*<foo\*>
.ARG foo
\*(lqgfile\*(rq \- the \*(lqgotten\*(rq file; this is your source file
.\"this is your source file (aka "gotten" file)
.tp
.OPTreq SCCS/s.\| foo
\*(lqs.file\*(rq \-
the revision history of all versions of the gfile
.tp
.OPTreq SCCS/p.\| foo
\*(lqp.file\*(rq \- the lock file, created when the file is edited.
The p.file contains the following columns:
.nf
.if n .ta .3i +0i +1.1i +1i +.8i
.if n .sp
.if t .ta .3i +0i +.75i +.75i +.75i
.if t .in +2
.if t .ft CW
	parent	new	
	revision	revision	user	date/time
	1.5	1.6	lm	01/01/2000 12:43:54
.fi
.if n .sp
.if t .in
.if t .ft
This file is an exclusive lock whose existence indicates 
that the gfile has been checked out for editing.  Unlike 
ATT SCCS, \*(BK allows only one locker at a time within a
single repository.
.tp
.OPTreq SCCS/z.\| foo
\*(lqz.file\*(rq \- a lock file created when locking or checking 
in a new version. This is an exclusive lock used when
updating or locking the s.file.  
.tp
.OPTreq SCCS/x.\| foo
\*(lqx.file\*(rq \- a temporary file which contains the new version
of the s.file under construction.  When the check-in is
finished, the s.file is removed and the x.file is moved
into its place.
.tp
.OPTreq SCCS/c.\| foo
\*(lqc.file\*(rq \- a temporary copy of check in comments,
currently used only by
.BR "bk citool" .
.tp
.OPTreq SCCS/d.\| foo
\*(lqd.file\*(rq \- a temporary file that indicates there is at least one
pending delta in the s.file.
.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
Depending on these files, other than the gfile, actually existing should
not be done.
In the future, all of the meta-files will be virtual.  At that point, 
there will be interfaces to read them, test for their presence, and
write them.
.SH CATEGORY
.B Overview
.br
.B File
.\" help://File/filetype
.\" help://File/gfile
.\" help://File/sfile
.\" help://File/pfile
.\" help://File/cfile
.\" help://File/s.file
.\" help://File/p.file
.\" help://File/c.file
.\" help://File/x.file
.\" help://File/z.file
