.so bk-macros
.TH "bk get" 1 20%E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.\"    =================== Editing BitKeeper files ===================
.SH NAME
bk get \- check out \*(BK files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk get 
.OPT opts
.BKARGS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B get
is used to check out ("get") files for viewing or editing.
By default, files are checked out unlocked and in a read-only mode.
.LP
You may not need to check out every file in order to compile your
program since most versions of the Make program will check files out
as they are needed.  In order for this to work, the get command needs
to be in your path and the dependencies need to be correct in the
Makefile.  If that is true, a simple "make" will check out and 
build your product.
.SH OPTIONS 
.if t .TP .7i
.if n .TP 1.1i
.if t \fB\-A\fP\fIbdnpru\fP
.if n \fB\-A\fP\fI<bdnpru>\fP
Align prefix output in a human readable form.
The set of annotations will be followed by a vertical bar and a space
before the data from each line of the file starts.
Each annotation is aligned in a column.
The option argument[s] turn on one
or more annotations as a prefix to each line.
The possible annotations are:
.RS
.TP 4
.B b
Prefix each line with the basename of the file.
.tp
.B d
Prefix each line with the date of last modification.
.tp
.B n
Prefix each line with its line number.
.tp
.B p
Prefix each line with pathname of the file relative to the root
of the repository.
.tp
.B r
Prefix each line with the revision of last modification.
.tp
.B u
Prefix each line the name of the user who last modified it.
.RE
.if t .TP .7i
.if n .TP 1.1i
.if t \fB\-a\fP\fIbdnpru\fP
.if n \fB\-a\fP\fI<bdnpru>\fP
Similar to
.B \-A 
but without the alignment.
.tp
.OPTreq \-c date
Get the latest revision before 
.ARG date .
.tp
.B \-e
Checkout the file for editing (same as bk edit).
.tp
.B \-g
Suppress the retrieval of any text; sometimes useful with \fB\-e\fP.
.tp
.OPTreq \-G name
Place the checked out file in 
.ARG name 
instead of the default gfile location.
.tp
.B \-h
Invert sense of file's hash flag.
.tp
.OPTreq \-i list
Include revs in 
.ARG list .
.tp
.B \-k
Don't expand RCS or SCCS keywords. \-k is implied by \-e.
.tp
.OPTreq \-M rev
Create a merge pointer from
.ARG rev .
This is an internal interface and is rarely, if ever, used by end users.
.tp
.B \-p
Write file to standard output (useful in scripts).
.tp
.B \-P
Write to stdout, forcing a get even if the file is corrupted (i.e., has a bad
checksum).
.tp
.B \-q
Run quietly, suppressing diagnostics.
.tp
.B \-R
Rev is part of pathname, i.e., 
.BR src/get.c|1.102 .
.tp
.OPTreq \-r rev
Get this revision. (Or key or changeset revision. See 
.B bk help terms
under 'rev argument')
.tp
.B \-S
Check out the file if and only if it is not already checked out.
.tp
.B \-T
Set the gfile's modification time to the delta's
creation time.
.tp
.OPTreq \-x list
Exclude revs in 
.ARG list .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA co 1
.SA edit 1
.SA keywords 1
make(1)
.SH CATEGORY
.B File
