.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk history" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk history \- guide to viewing changes to files and/or repositories
.SH TEXTUAL HISTORY
There are multiple tools to view the history of the repository, of 
a file, or of a collection of files such as a directory.  
All tools are described more completely on their own man pages.
.LP
To view the high-level changes to a repository, type:
.DS
$ bk changes
.DE
.B bk changes
has many options to control which changesets are shown, how they are shown,
etc.  It is the primary way for finding out what happened in the repository
and reading the changes man page is highly recommended.
.LP
The revision history of a file can be accessed by typing:
.DS
$ bk log foo.c
.DE
.B bk log
has many options. The most commonly used is the
.B \-r
option which is used to select a particular revision of the file.
For example,
to see the most recent check-in for every file in the current directory:
.DS
$ bk log \-r+
.DE
The
.B bk log
command documents the metadata associated with a \*(BK file as well as how
to display it.  Reading the
.B bk log
man page is highly recommended.
.LP
The 
.B bk sccslog
command is a time ordered view of changes over a set of files.
Unlike 
.BR "bk log" ,
.B bk sccslog
sorts all changes from all of the specified (or implied) files and then
displays each change in chronological order.
The following will display the changes which have happened to all the
files in the current directory:
.DS
$ bk sccslog 
.DE
.LP
All three commands support the same range notation as well as a
method of controlling the output format known as \*(lqdspecs\*(rq which
are documented on the 
.B bk log
man page.
.SH GRAPHICAL HISTORY
There are two graphical tools which are primarily used to view changes
to files or repositories.
These tools are described more completely on their man pages.
.LP
.B bk csettool
is a graphical changeset viewer which displays the list of
changes in each changeset, the ChangeSet history, and the
file differences (in a side by side display) for each file
in each changeset.
It is the graphical version of
.BR "bk changes" .
.LP
.B bk revtool
as a tool which shows the revision history graph of either a specified file
or of the the ChangeSet file.
Nodes in the graph may be selected to view that version of the file.  
If two nodes are selected then the differences between the two versions
are shown.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA changes
.SA csettool
.SA difftool
.SA log
.SA range
.SA revtool
.SA sccslog
.SA set
.SH CATEGORY
.B Overview
.br
.B Repository
