.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk helptool" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk helptool \- graphical front-end to the \*(BK help system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk helptool 
.[ARG] topic
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B bk helptool
command is a graphical interface to the online help system.
.LP
There are two text windows displayed, a window of topics on the left
and the help text on the right.  There are multiple sections, which
group related topics together.  A topic is slightly indented, the
section heading is not.
.LP
You can move around using the mouse, clicking on topics.  You can
also page through the entire help using
.Q PageDown
or
.QR PageUp .
To move from section to section, use the
.Q Left arrow
to move up and the
.Q Right arrow
to move forward.  This is fairly useful since the first entry
in each section tries to give a brief overview of that section.
.SH "HYPERLINK STACK"
.LP
.B Helptool
has a stack of places that you have visited, very similar to the
hyperlink stack in a web browser.
If you click on a topic you will notice that the
.Q Back
button becomes enabled.
Clicking it will move back to the previous topic.
Similarly for forward.
The same hot keys which work in Netscape are used here for forward
and back.
.SH SEARCHING
.LP
.B Helptool
includes a simple search facility.
To search for information, you type a word or phrase and hit
return (or click on
.QR Search ).
The search facility is fairly basic, single word searches tend to
work better than phrases.
If a phrase is wanted, it must be put in quotes, i.e., \*(lqlock
file.\*(rq By default, the search will return approximate matches,
i.e., searching on \*(lqa\*(rq will return anything with the
letter \*(lqa.\*(rq There is a config option to turn this off.
.LP
The lines which match, if any, are shown slightly indented.  Above the
indent lines is the name of the command or help page which contains
the lines.  You can click on that to jump to that page.  Each command
or page which contains the search phrase will be be highlighted in orange
so that you click through each of the pages which contain the information.
.LP
If you go to a page and it was not what you wanted, and you wish
to look at the summary lines again, jump back by clicking
.Q Search
or hitting return.  Note that the search results are not part of the
hyperlink stack of visited pages, but you can get back to the 
search results at any time by hitting Return.
.SH BINDINGS
.LP
The up/down bindings will move through topics, so when they hit the end
and the key is pressed again, the topic changes to the next or previous.
.TP \fBControl-Right\fP
.B DownArrow
Scroll the help text down one line.
.tp
.B UpArrow
Scroll the help text up one line.
.tp
.B LeftArrow
Scroll the help text left one column.
.tp
.B RightArrow
Scroll the help text right one column.
.tp
.B PageDown
Scroll the help text down one screen.
.tp
.B PageUp
Scroll the help text up one screen.
.tp
.B Home
Scroll to the top of help text.
.tp
.B End
Scroll to the bottom of the help text.
.tp
.B Control-Up
Move to the beginning of the previous topic.
.tp
.B Control-Down
Move to the beginning of the next topic.
.tp
.B Control-Left
Move to the beginning of the next section (not topic).
.tp
.B Control-Right
Move to the beginning of the previous section (not topic).
.tp
.B Alt-Left
Move backwards to the previously visited topic.
.tp
.B Alt-Right
Move forwards to the to the next topic in the stack.
.tp
.B Escape
Exit
.BR "bk helptool" .
.tp
.B Control-b
Scroll the help text up one screen.
.tp
.B Control-f
Scroll the help text down one screen.
.tp
.B Control-e
Scroll the help text down one line.
.tp
.B Control-y
Scroll the help text up one line.
.tp
.B Control-q
Exit from
.BR "bk helptool" .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA config-gui
.SA help
.SH CATEGORY
.B GUI-tools
