.so bk-macros
.TH "bk histtool" 1 20%E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"


.\"    =============== BitKeeper Graphical History Browser ===============
.SH NAME
bk histtool \- \*(BK graphical history browser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Bc bk histtool [
.ARGc filename
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
histtool is one of the primary tools for doing code reviews, when tracking 
down bugs, and when following the progress of a project.
.LP
The histtool program shows checkin comments and the graph of a project
or file.  Histtool may be used to view any file under revision control,
including the ChangeSet file. When no filename is given, the entire
package history is shown.
.LP
There are two windows displayed when histtool is started. The top
window is used to display the graph of revision history and the bottom
window is used to show the history or differences between versions.

.SH "HISTORY AND DIFFERENCES"
.LP
Upon startup, the bottom window contains the last month's revision
history for the file or project.
.LP
To view the history for just one revision, left click once on that
revision in the graph.
.LP
To see the differences between two revisions, left click once on the older
revision and right click once on the newer revision.  The differences
will be displayed in the text window.  You can right click on another
revision and diff again.  The default diff format is
.B \-u
(unified diffs).
.LP
To see the contents of a file, double click the left mouse button
on the revision node in the graph.  The text shown for the file is
annotated with the user name and the latest revision that modified
the line. The file text is generated with the
.B bk get \-ump
command.
.LP
Once the annotated file listing is shown, you can then click on
the text to view the checkin comments associated with the chosen
line. Double clicking on an annotated line brings up csettool and
shows all of the other files that were modified in the same changeset
as the selected line.
.LP
To get a side\-by\-side view of the differences, select the two revisions
and click on the "Diff tool" button.
.SH CHANGESETS
.LP
When operating on the ChangeSet file, the behavior is slightly
different.  Double\-clicking a revision displays the revision history
of the changeset and the history of the changes to each file contained
in that changeset.
.LP
If you click left/right on a range of changesets, you will get the
history of the entire range of changesets.  To see the history and the
differences in detail, you can click on the "View changeset" button
to bring up the changeset browser tool, csettool.  Typical usage is
to browse the ChangeSet file with histtool and drill down using
.B bk
.BR csettool .
.SH BINDINGS
.LP
The scrollbars can be used to orient the view of either window. 
In addition, there are the following keyboard bindings:
.TP 18
.B LeftArrow
Scroll graph window left 1 line.
.tp
.B RightArrow
Scroll graph window right 1 line.
.tp
.B Shift\-LeftArrow
Scroll graph window left 1 screen.
.tp
.B Shift\-RightArrow
Scroll graph window right 1 screen.
.tp
.B Shift\-UpArrow
Scroll graph window up 1 line.
.tp
.B Shift\-DownArrow
Scroll graph window down 1 line
.tp
.B Shift\-PageUp
Scroll graph window up 1 screen.
.tp
.B Shift\-PageDown
Scroll graph window down 1 screen.
.tp
.B Shift\-Home
Scroll graph window to the first revision.
.tp
.B Shift\-End
Scroll graph window to the last revision.
.TP
.B UpArrow
Scroll text window up 1 line (also Control\-y).
.tp
.B DownArrow
Scroll text window down 1 line (also Control\-e).
.tp
.B PageUp
Scroll text window up 1 screen (also Control\-b).
.tp
.B PageDown
Scroll text window down 1 screen (also Control\-f).
.tp
.B Home
Scroll text window to the top.
.tp
.B End
Scroll text window to the bottom.
.tp
.B MouseWheel
Scroll the text window up or down.
.tp
.B Shift-MouseWheel
Scroll the graph left or right.
.tp
.B Control-MouseWheel
Scroll the graph up or down.
.TP
.B s
Show the raw SCCS file.
.tp
.B d
Show the differences between the selected item and its parent. If
a graph node is selected, the difference between it and its parent
are shown. However, if a line within the annotated file listing is
selected, the difference between the selected revision and its parent
are shown.
.tp
.B h
Show the entire revision history comments.
.tp
.B t
Show only csets that have a tag associated with them.
.tp 
.B /
Search the text window for a string.
.tp
.B ?
Reverse search.
.tp
.B n
Search for the next occurrence of the string.
.tp
.B Control\-q
Quit histtool.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA Intro-GUItools 1
.SH CATEGORY
.B GUI-tools
.br
.B Common
.br
.B File
.br
.B Repository
.\" help://bk-sccstool.1
.\" help://bk-sccstool
.\" help://sccstool
