.so ../macros
.TH "bk intro-basics" 1 08/18/00 "*(BC" *(BK
.TH Introduction Basics %G% "BitMover, Inc." BitKeeper
.SH NAME
Introduction
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This section explains how to make changes to files under revision
control.  If you have not created a package, then see the  
.B bk help setup
section.
.LP
Note that BitKeeper supports both the traditional SCCS commands
for checking in/out files
.RB ( admin
.BR -i ,
.BR delta ,
.BR get )
as well as the RCS
commands 
.RB ( ci ,
.BR co ).
Typically, use
.B ci/co
as a shorthand way of doing
simple operations, but use
.B delta/get
in automated scripts and when
doing more complicated operations.
.LP
Try 
.B bk help RCS
for more information on the RCS interactions.
.LP
As an example, go to the directory where you would like to make changes:
.AX
$ cd ~/mypackage/src
.XA
If you are starting a new package, then create new files with any
editor and check them in.  The initial check in for a file that already 
exists will look like this:
.AX
$ bk new coolStuff.c
.XA
If you want to modify an existing file, you can do this:
.AX
$ bk edit coolStuff.c
.XA
Or, if you have multiple files in the directory, you can do the
following to place all files into a state where they can be modified:
.AX
$ bk edit
.XA
If you want to lock the entire tree, including subdirectories, try this:
.AX
$ bk -r edit
.XA
Locking the entire directory is useful when applying patches that
will access many files in a tree.
.LP
Once you are finished making changes to files, you can check in the files
as follows:
.AX
$ bk ci file1 file2 file3
.XA
However, we recommend using the graphical checkin tool which is invoked with 
the following command:
.AX
$ bk citool
.XA
Note that currently 
.B bk citool
works only for existing revision control files.
Use
.B bk new
or
.B bk import
to create new revision controlled files before
invoking 
.B bk citool.
.SH DOCUMENTATION
.LP
Each command in BitKeeper has command-specific help.  You can access
individual help topics by typing:
.AX
$ bk help <command>		# e.g., "bk help co"
.XA
There are also a number of other topics that describe various areas
in detail. Try
.B bk help
for a listing of help topics.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.SA ci
.br
.SA edit
.br
.SA get
.br
.SA new
.SH CATEGORY
.B Basics
