.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk keywords" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME 
bk keywords \- list of RCS and SCCS keywords
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\*(BK supports both the standard SCCS keywords, as well as most
of the RCS keywords. In addition, there are several keywords that
are unique to \*[BK].
.LP
Note: All of the revision-oriented keywords (e.g. %I%) are useless in
\*(BK since they may change as a result of a re-synchronization that causes a
branch creation.  Use the %K% keyword when you need an identifier that
is unique to a specific revision-level of a file. The %K% keyword is
useful when tracking customer bugs. For example, a technician might ask
the end-user to run the 
.B what
command on an executable to check the
versions of the components that make up a program.  The person doing
troubleshooting can then use the %K% keyword to track down the specific
source files that make up the executable.
.LP
Note: SCCS keyword expansion can cause problems in printf-like
strings.  To deal with unwanted keyword expansion, \*(BK can
be given options to expand only the first keyword found. See
.BR "bk help admin" .
.SH "SCCS KEYWORDS"
.nf
.if t .ta 0i +.005i +.5i +3i
	%A%	Shorthand notation for an ID line with data for \fIwhat\fR(1):
		%Z% %M% %I%%Z%	@(#) GET 1.1@(#)
	%B%	SID branch component				0
	%D%	Current date: yyyy/mm/dd				1991/04/13
	%E%	Date newest applied delta was created:	1991/04/13
	%F%	SCCS s.file name					SCCS/s.GET
	%G%	Date newest applied delta was created: mm/dd/yyyy	4/13/1991
	%H%	Current date: mm/dd/yyyy				4/13/1991
	%I%	SID of the retrieved version: %R%.%L%.%B%.%S%
		1.1 or 1.1.0.0 if fully specified as shown in the previous line
	%K%	Key for the delta (these do not change)
		lm@va.bitkeeper.com|src/bkhelp.txt|19991116191217|50766
	%L%	SID level component					1
	%M%	Module name: either the value of the m flag in the s.file
		or the name of the s.file less the prefix
	%P%	Fully-qualified s.file name			/u/lm/SCCS/s.GET
	%R%	SID Release component				1
	%S%	SID Sequence component				0
	%T%	Current time: hh:mm:ss				12:41:29
	%U%	Time the newest applied delta was created: hh:mm:ss	12:41:29
	%W%	Shorthand notation for an ID line with data for what:
		%Z%%M% %I%	@(#)GET				1.1
	%Y%	SCCS Compatible, not expanded in \*(BK 
	%Z%	4-character string: recognized by what.	@(#)
	%@%	user@host
	%#%	user
.fi
.SH "RCS KEYWORDS"
.LP
The following is the subset of RCS keywords that \*(BK supports.
The RCS keywords are only expanded if the RCS flag is turned on.
See 
.BR "bk help admin" .
.LP
.nf
.if t .ta 0i +.0025i +1.5i
.if n .ta 0i +.1i +.00001i +.5i +.75i
	$Revision$	$Revision: 1.2 $
	$Id$		$Id: s.rcs_expand.c 1.2 99/11/16 11:25:18-08:00 lm@r.com $
	$Author$	$Author: lm@r.com $
	$Date$	$Date: 99/11/16 11:25:18-08:00 $
	$Header$	$Header: SCCS/s.rcs_expand.c 1.2 99/11/16 11:25:18-08:00 lm@r.com $
	$RCSfile$	$RCSfile: s.rcs_expand.c $
	$Source$	$Source: /tmp/beta11/src/SCCS/s.rcs_expand.c $
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.SA admin
.SA config-etc
.SA co
.SH CATEGORY
.B Overview
