.so bk-macros
.TH "bk mv" 1 20%E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME 
bk mv \- rename file[s]
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk mv [\-f]
.ARG "source file[s]"
.ARG "destination file or directory"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
To rename a file/directory from
.ARG A
to
.ARG B
do this:
.DS
$ bk mv A B
.DE
.ft R
The
.B mv
command will rename the checked out file (if any) as well as the
revision control file.  Edited files are also renamed and then reedited,
preserving any changes made but not yet checked in.
The rename
will appear as an additional change to the file when you commit the
next changeset.
.LP
Renames propagate just like content changes,
i.e., they happen automatically when you pull changes into your 
repository from another repository unless you have also renamed the file.
In that case, the resolver will prompt you to choose a name.
.LP
If the last argument is an existing directory, `bk mv' moves each
other given file into a file with the same name in that directory.
Otherwise, if only two files are given, it renames the first as the
second.  It is an error if the last argument is not a directory and
more than two files are given. In summary, `bk mv' behaves like a 
a regular Unix `mv' command, execpt that it knows about the additional
BitKeeper files.
.SH NOTES
.LP
.B bk mv
will refuse to move BitKeeper metafiles without the 
.B \-f
option (use of which is not recommended).
.SH SEE ALSO
.SA commit 1
.SA names 1
.SA pull 1
.SA push 1
.SA resync 1
.SA rm 1
.SA rmdir
.SH AVAILABILITY
.BU
Fully supported in \*(BK Professional in all repositories.
.br
.BU
Limited functionality in \*(BK Basic.
bk mv should only be used in the master repository 
since the resolver can not merge rename conflicts in \*(BK Basic.
The actual requirement is that it is only
used in one repository, then all repositories must sync with
that repository.  The easiest way to accomplish this is to
establish policy which says that bk mv may only be used in the
master repository.
.SH CATEGORY
.B File
