.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk new" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk new \- add a file to the repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk new
.[B] \-bcq
.[OPTreq] \-M mode
.BKARGS
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B bk new
command is used to initially place files under \*[BK] control.
.LP
A useful way to add new files in the current directory is:
.DS
bk gfiles -x *.[ch] | bk new - 
.DE
When you want to add files in the current directory and all 
subdirectories, do the following:
.DS
bk -xr. new	# same as bk gfiles -x | bk new -
.DE
After the files are checked in, don't be surprised to see that
the files are no longer in your directory. The process of checking
in files removes the files from the directory and places them in
the SCCS directories.  Once in the SCCS directory, the file can be
retrieved with the 
.B bk co
or 
.B bk edit
commands.  Most versions of the
\*[UN] make command know about SCCS and will automatically check out
files as they are needed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP  "\-M \*<mode\*>"
.B \-b
force binary encoding with no keyword expansion;
recommended for all binary files, but will work
on text files as well (with a corresponding increase in the size of the 
revision history file).
.tp
.B \-c
Use comments saved by a previous run of citool, fix, collapse, etc.
It is an error if there are no saved comments.
.tp
.OPTreq \-M mode
Set the permissions on the new delta to \*<mode\*>.
.tp
.B \-q
be quiet.
.SH SEE ALSO
.SA ci
.SA edit
.SA co
.SA ignore
.SA gfiles
.SH CATEGORY
.B File
.br
.B Common
.\" help://add
