.if \n[NESTED] \{\
.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk port" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk port \- pull changes from a different nested collection or standalone
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk port
.[B] \-CiqRsTu
.[OPTreq] \-c n
.[OPTequal] \-E env var
.[OPTreq] \-r rev
.ARG from
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B bk port
is used to pull changes from a related repository that is either in a
different product or is a standalone repository.
It is similar to 
.B bk pull
but differs in that it can pull across product boundaries.
.LP
If the destination is attached to a product, that product must be a 
portal.
.LP
Changes are retrieved and automatically applied, if possible.
You will only be asked to resolve conflicts by hand if a file
has overlapping changes (changes where both repositories have
touched the same line in the same file).
.LP
To see what would be ported run
.DS
bk changes -SR <from>
.DE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP \-E\*<env\*>=\*<val\*>
.B \-C
Do not commit the ported changeset[s] to the product.
Use this option when you
wish to combine the port event with other changes to the product.
.tp
.OPTreq \-c n
try to get the remote lock
.ARG n
times before giving up (default forever).
.tp
.OPTequal \-E env val
Export environment variable to remote site.
The environment variable must start with
.V BKU_ .
.tp
.B \-i
Turn off automerge feature in resolve.
For each file with parallel work, you are prompted
to examine the changes and either manually or automatically
merge them.
Mutually exclusive with
.QR \-s .
.tp
.B \-q
Be quiet.
.tp
.B \-R
Do not run resolve at all.  You must run 
.B bk resolve 
later.
.tp
.OPTreq \-r rev
Pull up to and including this revision, but exclude later changes.
(Or key or changeset revision. See 
.B bk help terms
under 'rev argument')
.tp
.B \-s
Pass 
.Q \-s
to resolve (\c
.Q \-s
means do not do interactive resolve of any conflicts, leave that for later.)
Mutually exclusive with
.QR \-i .
.tp
.B \-T
Pass 
.Q \-T
to resolve (\c
.Q \-T
means do not use the GUI tools.)
.tp
.B \-u
Do not complete the port if there are local changesets, i.e., insist
that this operation is an update operation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA bkd
.SA changes
.SA parent
.SA portal
.SA pull
.SA resolve
.SA triggers
.SA unpull
.SH CATEGORY
.B Nested
.\}
