.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk populate" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk populate \- fill in components in a sparse product repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk populate
.[B] \-lqr
.[OPTreq] \-s component \ ...
.[ARG] from \ .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The populate command is used to add components to a sparse product,
or to repopulate any components previously populated and then 
manually removed.
.LP
When cloning a product, it is possible to clone a subset of it by 
specifying one or more component names or aliases.
If later you want to add another component or alias, the populate command
can help:
.DS
$ bk clone -sDEV-TOOLS bk://server/big-product
$ cd big-product
$ bk populate -sDEBUGGER
.DE
After running the above, the cached components list will be
"DEV-TOOLS" and "DEBUGGER" (and may be named with the "THERE" alias).
If you need to populate a component that is not present in your parent[s],
add one or more trailing urls (populate will use each url in turn until
all requested components are found):
.DS
$ bk populate -sBLIMEY bk://uk-server/big-product
.DE
.LP
The set of components populate will consider are
specified on the command line with
.BR \-s ,
or retrieved from the cached aliases list with
.BR \-r ,
or implied by the "DEFAULT" aliases database entry if neither of
the former apply.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP \-s\*<comp\*>
.B \-l
Populate using hard links instead of copying the data.  
This is faster and saves disk space, but only works 
within filesystems supporting hard links.
.tp
.OPTreq \-s comp
Populate the components implied implied by
.ARG comp .
If this option is repeated the implied subset is the union of all
specified components.
.ARG comp
may be a component or an alias for a set of components.
.tp
.B \-q
Run quietly.
.tp
.B \-r
Repair the product by replacing any components which are listed in
the cached components list that have been manually removed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA alias
.SA bkd
.SA clone
.SA parent
.SA relink
.SA triggers
.SA unpopulate
.SA url
.SH CATEGORY
.B Product
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is an optional feature of \*[BK]
and must be enabled in your license.
To see if your license has this enabled, run 
.DS
bk lease renew
bk lease show
.DE
If the options field has "product" or "product-line" listed then your
license has this feature enabled.
If not, contact BitMover sales.
