.so bk-macros
.TH "bk parent" 1 20%E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk parent \- show or set the parent repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Bc bk parent [
.Bc -qr] [
.ARGc repository
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The parent command prints or sets the default location where the 
\fBbk pull\fR/\fBbk push\fR commands get/put new work.
.LP
With no argument, the comand prints the parent name.  With an argument, it sets
the parent to that argument.  
.LP
The parent is automatically set when a repository is cloned.
.SH REPOSITORY NAMES
\*(BK supports multiple ways to access a repository.  The selection of the
access method is determined by how the repository is referenced.  Each
form is described here:
.SS LOCAL NAME
.in +4
.de head
.	br
.	ne 4
.	ti -4
..
.head
.ARG pathname
.br
access is all local, through the local file system.
.head
.ARGc host :
.ARG pathname
.br
Normally a remote repository unless 
.ARG host 
is what
.B bk host
returns or is
.BR localhost .
In either of those cases, this form is the same as the above form.
.SS REMOTE NAME
.in +4
.head
.ARGc host :
.ARG pathname
.br
Uses 
.B ssh 
(by default)
to access 
.ARG host ,
and starts a temporary
.BR bkd .
If 
.B $BK_RSH 
is set, then use that to talk to the host (allows proxying).
If no 
.B ssh
is found then falls back to
.BR rsh.
.head
\fBbk\fR://\c
.ARGc user @
.ARG host 
.br
Connects to
.ARG host
using 
.BR ssh ,
assumes that 
.B bkd
is the login shell.
The home directory of 
.ARG user
must be the root of the repository.
.head
\fBbk\fR://\c
.ARGc user @
.ARGc host :
.ARG pathname
.br
Connects to
.ARG host
using 
.BR ssh ,
assumes that 
.B bkd
is the login shell.
Changes directories to the specified pathname, which may be relative to the
home directory or absolute.
.head
\fBbk\fR://\c
.ARG host
.br
Connects to an existing 
.B bkd
on the default 
.B bkd
port.
The 
.B bkd
must be at the root of the repository.
.head
\fBbk\fR://\c
.ARGc host /
.ARG pathname
.br
Connects to an existing 
.B bkd
on the default bkd port,
changes to 
.ARG <pathname> ,
then runs command.
.head
\fBbk\fR://\c
.ARGc host :
.ARG port
.br
Connects to an existing 
.B bkd
on the specified port.
.B bkd
must be at the root of the repository.
.head
\fBbk\fR://\c
.ARGc host :
.ARGc port /
.ARG pathname
.br
Connects to an existing 
.B bkd
on the specified port,
changes to 
.ARG pathname ,
then runs command.
.head
\fBhttp\fR://\c
.ARGc host :
.ARGc port /
.ARG pathname
.br
Connects to the specified port via the hypertext transfer protocol, changes
to pathname, then runs the command.
.head
\fBhttp\fR://\c
.ARGc host :
.ARGc port 
.br
Same as above, except that it assumes that the pwd of the bkd is the root
of the source repository.
.SS PROXIES
\*(BK supports http proxy via environment variables on Unix systems and
via the registry on win32 systems.
.LP
The following are the Unix environment variable options available for use.  
.LP
.RS .4i
.Bc HTTP_PROXY_HOST=
.ARG host_name
.br
.Bc HTTP_PROXY_PORT=
.ARG port_number
.LP
.Bc http_proxy= 
.ARGc host :
.ARG port
.LP
.Bc SOCKS_HOST
.ARG host_name
.br
.Bc SOCKS_PORT
.ARG port_number
.LP
.Bc SOCKS_SERVER
.ARGc host :
.ARG port .
.RE
.LP
Note: if HTTP_PROXY_HOST is set, HTTP_PROXY_PORT must also be set.  Likewise
for SOCKS_HOST and SOCKS_PORT.
If you are not sure if you should set environment variables, please consult
your system administrator.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-q
Run quietly.
.tp
.B \-r
Remove the parent pointer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA bkd 1
.SA clone 1
.SA pull 1
.SA push 1
.SA resync 1
.\" help://url
.\" help://bk-url
.\" help://remote
.\" help://naming
.SH CATEGORY
.B Repository
