.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk repos" 1 %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk repos \- command description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
.B bk repos [\-a | \-m] [\-\-check-all] [\-q] [\-v]
.br
.B bk repos [\-c]
.ARG repo_path
.br
.B bk repos [\-\-raw]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
BitKeeper remembers where repositories are by keeping a list of
repository locations. When repositories are created (bk clone or bk
setup) or are checked (bk repocheck), this list is updated with the
pathname along with some other metadata.
.LP
The
.B bk repos
command shows and updates this list of repository locations.
.LP
With no options, the command will simply list repositories
in alphabetic order.  Prior to the output, repositories are
checked for existence and those found to be missing are pruned.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP \-c\*<repo_path\*>
.B \-\-check-all
Validate that all the saved repository locations exist and update their
metadata.  Without the \-q option, output the updated list.
.tp
.B \-q
Allow the list to be updated but do not output anything.
.tp
.B \-\-raw
Output the list of repository locations without checking that each still
exists.
Useful in performance sensitive (NFS) environments where testing each
repository location may be expensive.
.tp
.B \-a
Sort the output on access time.  Access time is defined as the time of
any bk command having been run inside the repository.
.tp
.B \-m
Sort the output on modification time.  Modification time is defined as
the timestamp of the tip changeset.
.tp
.OPTreq \-c repo_path
Update the list entry for this repository.
.tp
.B \-v
Output all of the data associated with each repository.  The format is:
.DS
PATH|ATIME|MTIME|MD5ROOTKEY
.DE
.SH SEE ALSO
.SA clone
.SA setup
.SA repocheck
.SA id
.SH CATEGORY
.B Utility
