.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk renametool" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.\"    =============== BitKeeper Graphical Rename Tool ===============
.SH NAME
bk renametool \- graphical tool for finding renames
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk renametool \<
.ARG filelist
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B bk renametool
command is a graphical interface for finding renames.
.B bk renametool
is invoked automatically by the 
.B bk import
command when importing patches.
.LP
The purpose of this tool is to maintain revision history across file
renames.  A repository which is managed entirely by \*(BK manages
revision history across file renames. However, a system managed by
\*(BK, but which imports traditional patches (i.e.
.BR "diff \-Nur" ).
needs some help because patches do not directly record renames.
.LP
Conceptually, a patch rename is seen as a deletion of one file and a
creation of another file.  When \*(BK imports a patch, it detects
the set of created and deleted files.  These files are then fed to
.B bk renametool
where you are given the chance to find files which are
actually renames and record that information.  
.LP
When
.B bk renametool
starts up, you are looking at several text windows.
The goal is to match up files in the create window with files in the
delete window.
You can click on files in each window and the tool will show you diffs.
When you find two files which you think are the same, you can click the
.Q rename
button to rename them and remove them from the lists.
The
.Q guess
button tries to find matches for you, based on the basename of
the files.
When you click on a created file, the
.Q guess
button is invoked once automatically.
You can click on the
.Q guess
button again to find the next potential match.
.LP
After you have matched up every file there is to match up, click
.Q create all
and
.Q delete all
to finish up any stragglers, and then click apply.
.SH BINDINGS
.TP \fBRightArrow\fP
.B Home
Scroll both diff windows to the top
.tp
.B End
Scroll both diff windows to the bottom
.tp
.B PageUp
Scroll both diff windows one screen up
.tp
.B PageDown
Scroll both diff windows one screen down
.tp
.B UpArrow
Scroll both diff windows one line up
.tp
.B DownArrow
Scroll both diff windows one line down
.tp
.B LeftArrow
Scroll both diff windows to the left
.tp
.B RightArrow
Scroll both diff windows to the right
.LP
These bindings are the same as clicking the associated buttons:
.TP \fBRightArrow\fP
.B \s-1SPACE\s0,\ n
Next diff
.tp
.B a
Apply the actions in the Resolved files window
.tp
.B C
Create all files in the Created files window
.tp
.B c
Create the highlighted file in the Created files window
.tp
.B D
Delete all files in the Deleted files window
.tp
.B d
Delete the highlighted file in the Deleted files window
.tp
.B g
Guess what the match might be
.tp
.B h
Show history of the highlighted file in the Deleted files window
.tp
.B p
Previous diff
.tp
.B Control\-q
Quit without applying any changes
.tp
.B r
Rename the two marked files
.tp
.B u
Undo the highlighted file in the Resolved files window
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA config-gui
.SA renames
.SH CATEGORY
.B GUI-tools
