.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk receive" 1 20%E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.\"    =============== Receiving BitKeeper patches ===============
.SH NAME
bk receive \- receive a \*(BK patch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Bc bk receive [
.ARGc takepatch_options
.Bc ] [
.ARGc repository
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Use when applying a \*(BK patch you received via email.  You can
take a \*(BK patch and pipe the whole email message through
bk receive. Headers and footers are stripped automatically.
.LP
When someone sends you a patch with the following command:
.DS
$ bk send -rbeta.. you@your.host.com
.DE
.LP
You will receive an email message which needs to be saved so you can
feed it to the receive command:
.DS
$ bk receive ~/mypackage < patch
.DE
.LP
Many Unix email programs (pine, elm, etc) will allow you to pipe a
message directly to a program. For example, when you are reading a
message in pine, you can hit the '|' key, and you will be prompted
with a message asking you for a program name where the message should
be piped.
.LP
Remember that if you are getting the very first patch, you need to create
a new repository by adding the "\-i" option.  \*(BK does not create
repositories by default.
.LP
Specifying the repository is optional; if it is unspecified, receive tries
to use the current working directory.
.LP
Patches may be wrapped. If they are you will see something like
.DS
## Wrapped with uu ##
.DE
near the top of the patch.  \*(BK knows how to unwrap patches which
it wrapped.  We currently support only uuencoded wrappers, but it is
trivial to create different ones, see bk help wrap for more information.
.LP
Once a patch is run through bk receive, run bk resolve to apply 
the changes.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
All options are sent to takepatch.  With no options, takepatch is
completely silent.  If you want to see the progress reports you
see with bk pull, add \-vv to the options.
.TP
.B \-a
Apply the changes (call 
.BR bk\ resolve .)
.tp
.B \-c
Do not accept conflicts with this patch.
.tp
.B \-i
Initial patch, create a new repository.
.tp
.B \-v
Verbose level, more is more verbose, \-vv is suggested.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA send 1
.SA takepatch 1
.SA wrap 1
.SH CATEGORY
.B File
