.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk setuptool" 1 2002/09/17 "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.\"    ====================== BitKeeper setuptool ======================
.SH NAME
bk setuptool \- graphical front-end to the \*(BK setup command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Bc bk setuptool [
.ARGc directory
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B setuptool
command is a graphical interface for creating new BitKeeper repositories.
.LP
The purpose of the tool is to help you enter all of the information 
needed to create a repository by stepping you through a series of
input forms and prompts.
.LP
Before you can create a repository you must read and accept the
appropriate BitKeeper license. The exact license you must accept
depends on the type of the repository you are creating. 
.B Setuptool 
will prompt you for the type of repository and give you an
opportunity to read and accept the license. If you choose to not
accept the license you will not be able to create the
repository. See bk help setup, bk help licensing and bk help
openlogging for more information. 
.LP
After you have accepted a particular license, the next time you run 
.B setuptool
you will not be required to accept the same license again. 
.LP
Once you have defined the type of repository and accepted the
appropriate license you will be prompted for additional information
that will be stored in the config file for the repository. Different
types of repositories will require slightly different sets of
data. For example, a repository that uses a commercial license will
require that you enter the license key and signatures.
.LP
After all information has been entered you will have a chance to
review the information that will be put into the config file before
the repository is created. When the repository is created, the config 
file is stored as a normal revision controlled file so that you may go 
back and edit the file at a later date.
.LP
If you will be creating several repositories that will use the same 
configuration information (such as contact information) you may
create a system-wide default config file in 
/etc/BitKeeper/etc/config.template. This has the same format as a
regular config file. 
.B Setuptool 
will look for
this file and, if found, use the data in the file to set the default
values when creating a new repository.
.SH "LICENSE KEYS"
.LP
If you have a commercial license key you may enter it by hand when
prompted.
.B Setuptool also allows you to load the license key and signatures
from a file. This is the most accurate way to enter the licensing
information. 
.LP
This file may have other information besides the license
key as long as the key and signatures are embedded in the text
somewhere. So, for example, if you receive an email that includes
your license key you can save that email to a file and select that
file from within
.BR setuptool .
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP
To create a repostory named /projects/helloworld, you type the
following command:
.DS
bk setuptool /projects/helloworld
.DE
This will prompt you for information to place in the config file and
then create a project hierarchy rooted at /projects/helloworld. The
config file with the data you entered is in 
/projects/helloworld/BitKeeper/etc/config.
.LP
You do not need to include the name of a directory on the command line. If
you do not include it you will be required to enter a name during one
of the configuration steps.
.SH BINDINGS
.LP
.TP 15
.B Enter
Perform the default action, which is either to go to the next step,
or create the repository if on the final step.
.TP 15
.B Tab
Moves between input fields.
.LP
You may also use your system's cut, copy and paste keys in the input
fields.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA config-etc
.SA setup
.SA openlogging
.SA licensing

