.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk sendbug" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk sendbug \- file a bug report
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk sendbug
.[B] \-T
.[ARG] email@host
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
File a bug or request for enhancement (RFE) against a project.
.LP
The default behavior is to display the graphical version of sendbug
when the
.V DISPLAY
environment variable is set (\*[UN]) or if it is
run on a Windows operating system.  To
use a text editor rather than the GUI, use the
.Q \-T
option.
.LP
If email address is specified, the bug will be sent to that email address.
.LP
This command should be used to file a bug report rather then sending
mail to one of the developers.
.LP
The \*(BK bug database is online at
.BR http://db.bitkeeper.com .
.LP
The bug database is also available via email, consult the web page for
more information.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-T
Use a text editor rather than the default graphical tool to fill out a bug
report.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.V REPLYTO
submitter's email address
.SH EXAMPLE
An example text template looks like this:
.sp
.nf
Bug/RFE:
        [bug is obvious, RFE is request for enhancement]

Severity:
        [5 - no big deal, 1 - can't use BitKeeper until this is fixed]

Priority:
        [5 - fix whenever, 1 - fix RIGHT NOW]

Program:
        [cset, co, ci, etc.  If you know which caused the problem]

Release:
        beta10-pre1

OS:
        [Linux, IRIX, NT, etc]
Etc.
.sp
.fi
and the filled out report should look like this (note that the data
goes after the tags, not on the same line):
.sp
.nf
Bug/RFE:
        bug

Severity:
        1

Priority:
        1

Program:
        sendbug

Release:
        pre-2.0-2

OS:
        All
Etc.
.sp
.fi
.SH CATEGORY
.B Admin
