.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk sccslog" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME 
bk sccslog \- list deltas sorted by date across all files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk sccslog
.[B] \-bDfnS
.[OPTreq] \-c d
.[OPTreq] \-d d
.[OPTopt] \-L u
.[OPTreq] \-r r
.BKARGS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B bk sccslog
is used to get a time sorted listing of changes over all of the specified
or implied files.  It is similar to
.BR "bk log" ,
with the difference being
that
.B bk log
respects file boundaries, i.e., lists all changes in a file 
before going on, but
.B bk sccslog
sorts the changes and prints each change
in time order, ignoring file boundaries.
It is useful to go to a directory and type:
.DS
bk sccslog -c-1M..
.DE
to see what has happened in all of the files there in the last month.
.LP
By default,
.B bk sccslog
runs the output through your pager, which can
be controlled with \s-2$PAGER\s0.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP \fB\-c1992/07.\|.1992\fP
.B \-b
Show basenames instead of full pathnames.
.tp
.OPTreq \-c dates
Cut off dates.  See Range Specifications (below) or
._SA range 
for details.
.\" Undocumented, internal interface.
.\" .tp
.\" .B \-C
.\" Produce comments for a changeset.
.tp
.B \-D
Factor out duplicate comments and print the results as
.DS
libdiff.c, gnupatch.c:
  add --minimal to calls to diff(1).
.DE
.tp
.OPTreq \-d dspec
Format output according to the data specification string.  See
.B bk log
documentation for information on data specifications.
.tp
.OPTreq \-\-dspecf\= file
Like
.B \-d
but read the dspec from a file.
.tp
.B \-f
Print the changes in forwards order (oldest to newest).  The
default is backwards order.
.\" Undocumented, internal interface.
.\" .tp
.\" .OPTreq \-i d
.\" Indent output by 
.\" .ARG d
.\" spaces.
.tp
.OPTopt \-L url
Show all deltas unique to this repository relative to the (outgoing) parent or
.ARG url
if one was specified.
May not be combined with
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-C ,
or
.BR \-r .
.tp
.B \-n
Add  a newline to each printed record (sometimes useful with
.QR \-d ).
.tp
.OPTreq \-r r
Specify a revision or a range.
.tp
.B \-S
.tp
.B \-\-standalone
Use with -L in a nested component when you want the component to act like
a standalone repository.
.SS RANGE SPECIFICATIONS
.\" XXX format for the below list?
.TP \fB\-c1992/07.\|.1992\fP
.B \-r+
prints the most recent delta
.tp
.B \-r1.3.\|.1.6
prints all deltas that are in 1.6's history, but are not in 1.3's history.
.tp
.B \-c1992/07.\|.1992
prints all deltas from July 1 '92 to Dec 31 '92
.tp
.B \-c1992.\|.1992
prints all deltas from Jan 1 '92 to Dec 31 '92
.SH SEE ALSO
.SA changes
.SA log
.SA range
.SH CATEGORY
.B File
