.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk sfiles" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk sfiles \- generate lists of \*[BK] controlled files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk
.B sfiles
.[B] \-01acCdDgGijlnRsSuUvxy
.[OPTreq] \-o file
.[OPTopt] \-p \fBA\fP|\fBC\fP
.[ARG] dirs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bk sfiles
is used to generate lists of revision control files, files related to
revision control files, directories related (or not) to revision control files,
and/or files not under revision control.  In other words, if you need a list
of files, you've come to the right place.
.LP
.B bk sfiles 
without any arguments finds all s.files in or below the current working
directory.  This is what
.Qreq "bk\ \-r\ " command
uses to generate the list of files to feed to 
.ARG command .
.LP
If a directory and/or file list is specified, then each of the items in 
the list is processed; directories are processed recursively.
.SH OPTIONS
Most of the options below may be combined to list files which are in 
different states, for example, 
.B \-cx 
would list modified files and extra files not yet under \*(BK control.
.LP
When combining options it is best to also add
.B \-v
so that what is listed is unambiguous.
.TP \fB\-p[A|C]\fPnn
.B \-0
Use a null character (instead of a newline) to separate each filename
printed.  This is to useful with 
.BR "GNU xargs -0" .
.tp
.B \-1
Only examine the current (or named) directory.
Do not go into subdirectories.
.tp
.B \-a
Examine all files, even if listed in
.BR BitKeeper/etc/ignore .
.tp
.B \-c
List changed files (locked and modified).
If
.I clock_skew
is set in the config file then the file timestamps
and other attributes are used to speed scanning.
The acceptible clock skew can be configured, see
.I clock_skew
in
.BR "bk help config-etc" .
.tp
.B \-C
Identical to 
.Q \-c
except the file timestamps are not trusted.
.tp
.B \-d
List directories under \*(BK control (SCCS subdir exists).
.tp
.B \-D
List directories with no (or empty) SCCS subdirs.
.tp
.B \-E
Shorthand which means "show everything interesting in verbose format".
Currently the same as:
.Q \-cdDGijlnRsuvxyp
.tp
.B \-g
List the gfile name, not the sfile name.
.tp
.B \-G
List files only if they are checked out ("gotten").
.tp
.B \-i
List files which would normally be listed as extras (see
.B \-x 
below) but are suppressed because they are present in the 
.B BitKeeper/etc/ignore 
file.
.tp
.B \-j
List junk files, i.e., files in \*(SC subdirectories which are not 
metadata.
.tp
.B \-l
List locked files (p.file and/or z.file).
.tp
.B \-n
List s.files that are not in the correct location.  
.tp
.OPTreq \-o file
Send output to
.ARG file
and progress information to stdout.
.tp
.OPTopt \-p A|C
List files with pending deltas.  If 
.B \-pC
then list 
leaves which are not in a changeset as 
.Q \-pC
then list leaves which are not in a changeset as 
.B file|1.3
If
.QR \-pA ,
that implies 
.QR \-pC ,
and 
lists all revisions, not just the tip.
If
.BR \-pA ,
that implies 
.BR \-pC ,
and 
lists all revisions, not just the tip.
.Q \-pA
.tp
.B \-P
Like
.QR \-p ,
but don't trust the d.file.  Use the s.file for verification
and create or delete the d.file to match the status of the s.file.
.tp
.B \-R
List sub-repositories, i.e., any repository root within your tree other
than your repository root.
.tp
.B \-S
Produce a summary listing only, typically combined with 
.QR \-E .
.tp
.B \-u
List unlocked files.
.tp
.B \-U
List user files only, skipping 
the ChangeSet file 
and everything below
.B BitKeeper/
other than 
.BR BitKeeper/triggers/* .
.tp
.B \-v
Prefix the output with information about the state of the s.file.
The information is in a 7 character field, followed by a space,
then followed by the filename.
Each of the columns are described
below, with the notation, then the option, then description.
.RS
.TP "\f(CBs-----y\ (\-y)\fP"
\f(CBd------\ (-d)\fP
a directory containing \*(BK files
.tp
\f(CBD------\ (-D)\fP
a directory containing no \*(BK files (but may have subdirectories with 
\*(BK files).
.tp
\f(CBi------\ (-i)\fP
a file that is extra but is normally ignored
.tp
\f(CBj------\ (-j)\fP
extra file under \*[SCCS]/ dir
.tp
\f(CBR------\ (-R)\fP
the file is a subrepository root (overrides \-d)
.tp
\f(CBs------\ (-s)\fP
a file that is under \*(BK control
.tp
\f(CBx------\ (-x)\fP
a file that is not under \*(BK control
.tp
\f(CBsl-----\ (-l)\fP
a \*(BK file that is locked
.tp
\f(CBsu-----\ (-u)\fP
a \*(BK file that is not locked
.tp
\f(CBslc----\ (-c)\fP
a \*(BK file that is locked and modified (aka changed)
.tp
\f(CBs--p---\ (-p)\fP
a \*(BK file that has one or more pending deltas
.tp
\f(CBs---G--\ (-G)\fP
a \*(BK file that is checked out (aka gotten)
.tp
\f(CBs----n-\ (-n)\fP
a \*(BK file that is not in its recorded location
.tp
\f(CBs-----y\ (-y)\fP
a \*(BK file that has saved checkin comments
.tp
\f(CBx-----y\ (-y)\fP
an extra file that has saved checkin comments
.RE
.tp
.B \-x
List files which have no revision control files.
.tp
.B \-y
List files which have saved checkin comments, the files listed
may be either extra files and/or files under \*(BK control.
.SH NOTES
.LP
.B bk sfiles
will not descend into directories containing a
.B .bk_skip
file.  This allows you to prune entire subtrees from processing.
If the directory containing
.B .bk_skip
also contains an SCCS subdirectory then the SCCS subdirectory also
needs a
.B .bk_skip
if you really want to prune that tree.
.LP
Files under
.B BitKeeper/{log,readers,writers}/
are always ignored.
.LP
Revision control files must look like
.BR SCCS/s.* ,
not
.BR foo/bar/blech/s.* .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA history
.SA ignore
.SA new
.SA xargs
.SH CATEGORY
.B File
.\" help://Files/gfiles
