.so ../macros
.TH "bk terms" 1 08/18/00 "*(BC" *(BK
.\"    ====================== BitKeeper terms ======================
.SH NAME
BitKeeper terms
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.SS "BitKeeper definitions:"
.TP
sfile
A file containing the revision history, e.g., SCCS/s.foo.c
.TP
gfile
A file that is checked out, e.g., foo.c
.TP
package
A package is a logical concept while the repository is 
the physical instance of that concept. A package is 
created only once when the 
.B bk setup
program is run.
.TP
repository
A directory tree that is populated with the revision
control files.  A repository is an instance of a
package i.e. there is one package, but there can
be many repositories belonging to that package.
.TP
tag, symbol
A symbolic name (or tag) which is given to a particular
revision of one or more files.  e.g., "Alpha1".
.TP
revision, delta
One version of a particular file, or one change to a
particular file, depending on context.  Sometimes we
want to talk about the way the file is while sometimes
we want to talk about how it got there.
Files that have been checked out, edited, and not
yet checked back in are "modified" files.  When you
check files in, the modifications become new deltas.
.TP
cset, changeset
One or more changes (deltas) to one or more files, 
grouped together into one logical change.
A changeset is the smallest thing which may be 
propagated between repositories.
Deltas that aren't in changesets are called
"uncommitted" or "pending" deltas.
.TP
pending
Deltas which have been checked into a file but not yet
committed to a changeset.
.TP
patch
Formally, this is one or more changesets wrapped up
for transmission to someone else.  It is similar to
what you may be used to thinking of as a patch
(a list of all the changes between two versions of
an entire package) but carries more information: who
made the changes, when, and why.
.LP
We attempt to list all of the BitKeeper definitions here, but send us a
message at "docs@bitkeeper.com" if you have suggestions for definitions
we may have missed.
.SH CATEGORY
.B General
