.so bk-macros
.TH "bk unlock" 1 20%E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.\"    =============== Discarding lock files ===============
.SH NAME
bk unlock \- remove \*(BK file locks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk unlock [\-rsw]
.br
.B bk unlock [\-bfpxz]
.FILES
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The unlock command can be used to remove locks which have been left behind
for some reason.  In general, you shouldn't need this command, if you do
it indicates that either you are removing files without unediting them
or it indicates that \*(BK is leaving lock files that it should not.
If it is the second case, please tell support@bitmover.com so we can fix
that problem.
.LP
There are two sorts of locks in BitKeeper, file locks and repository
locks.  The unlock command can unlock both kinds.
.SH "REPOSITORY UNLOCKING"
.LP
The unlock command can be used to remove repository level locks.  This can
be necessary if a remote process has left behind a lock (local stale locks
are detected and cleaned automatically).  A stale lock is one which has been
created locally but the process is no longer present.
.LP
Note: a repository can have two write locks: the regular lock file and
the existence of the RESYNC directory.  Removing the write lock does not
imply removing the RESYNC directory, see bk help abort for that.
.SH "REPOSITORY UNLOCK OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-r
Remove all read locks, stale or not.
.tp
.B \-s
Remove both read and write locks, but only if they are stale.
.tp
.B \-w
Remove the write lock, stale or not.  Does not remove the RESYNC directory.
.SH "FILE UNLOCKING"
.LP
Sometimes you need to explicitly unlock files.  The most common reason for
wanting to do this comes from doing the following:
.DS
    $ bk edit user.c
    $ rm user.c
    $ bk edit user.c
    get: can't plock user.c
    get of SCCS/s.user.c failed, skipping it.
.DE
.LP
In other words, the checked out file has been removed but the lock file
still exists.  See the clean and unedit commands for ways to avoid this
in the future.
.LP
The unlock command will fix the problem described above by removing what
is called the ``p.file'', in this case SCCS/p.user.c.
.LP
The options listed above explain how to use the unlock command to remove
other kinds of locks as well.
.LP
By default, unlock removes the p.file lock.  The z.file will normally
time out and be discarded unless it was created on a different host
(via NFS or SMB).
.LP
The default behavior of unlock is to remove the p.file only if the checked
out file does not exist, i.e., like the scenario described above.
.SH "FILE UNLOCK OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-b
Removes the b.file lock which is created as part of the resolve
process.
.tp
.B \-f
Force the unlink of the p.file even if the checked out file exists.
.tp
.B \-p
Removes the p.file lock which is created by bk edit.
.tp
.B \-x
Removes the x.file lock which is created during a check\-in. x.file
contains the new s.file.
.tp
.B \-z
Removes the z.file lock which is created to prevent check\-in and
edit races.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The unlock interface is overload for both file level and repository level
operations and that is confusing.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA unedit 1
.SA clean 1
.SA lock 1
.SA abort 1
.\" help://Repository/locks
.\" help://Repository/repo
.\" help://Repository/unlocking
.SH CATEGORY
.B File
.br
.B Repository
