.so ../bk-macros
.TH "bk populate" "\*[BKVER]" %E% "\*(BC" "\*(UM"
.SH NAME
bk unpopulate \- remove components from a product
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bk unpopulate
.[B] \-flq
.[OPTreq] \-s component \ ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The unpopulate command is used to remove unneeded components from a product.
.LP
If you no longer need one or more components, you may remove them like
so:
.DS
$ cd big-product
$ bk unpopulate -sDEV-TOOLS
.DE
In order to preserve any local work, unpopulate will run
bk superset, which searches for local changesets, deltas, 
modifications, extra files, etc.
See 
.B \-f
below for how to skip this check.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP \-s\*<comp\*>
.B \-f
Force the unpopulate to work even if local work is present.
.tp
.B \-l
List components and/or aliases that were specified to a previous
clone and/or populate.
This is list is what you may unpopulate.
.tp
.B \-q
Run quietly.
.tp
.OPTreq \-s comp
Restrict the unpopulate to the subset implied by
.ARG comp .
If this option is repeated the implied subset is the union of all
specified components.
.ARG comp
must be one of the same values as specified to a previous clone and/or
populate; use the
.B \-l
option to see those values.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SA alias
.SA clone
.SA parent
.SA populate
.SA superset
.SH CATEGORY
.B Product
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is an optional feature of \*[BK]
and must be enabled in your license.
To see if your license has this enabled, run 
.DS
bk lease renew
bk lease show
.DE
If the options field has "product" or "product-line" listed then your
license has this feature enabled.
If not, contact BitMover sales.
